#En-Ta Glossary prepared by University of Moratuwa
#Line Count : 8949
Ranaviru Sewa Authority 
Annual Report 2011 
No.301, 4th Floor, 
T.B.Jayah Mawatha 
Colombo 10 
Contents 
01. Nation’s gratitude to the name 'Ranaviru' 
02. Preamble 
03. Our Functions 
04. Targeted Beneficiaries 
05. Objectives 
06. Approach for the year 2011- Project Budget 
07. Staff of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority/
Post of Project Manager and Administrative Officer/
Head Quarters of the Authority 
08. Receipt of Financial Assistance 
09. Special projects implemented in 2011 
10. Methodologies to achieve targets and objectives 
11. Data and information Division 
12. Physical and Mental empowerment division 
i. Psychosocial project 
ii. Disabled war heroes’ welfare project 
13. Education skills and Economic Development Division 
i. Skills and Development Division 
ii. Housing Loans  
iii. Education Scholarship Project 
iv. Foster Parent Programme 
v. Mapiya Surekuma Programme 
vi. Housing Assistance Project 
14. War hero Honor and Dignity Division 
i. Ranaviru Remembrance Project 
ii. Land project 
15. Social and Cultural Division
i. Community  Project 
ii. Ranaviru Villages Project 
iii. Cultural Division
16. Conclusion 
17. Auditor General’s Report 
18. Financial Statement 
Vision of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority  
Paying the country’s respect and gratitude embodying the name "Ranaviru” 
Our Mission Statement  
Planning and operation of welfare services for the settlement of psycho-social and social issues faced by the family members of those missing, killed of disabled in action in the Armed Services and Police in defending the country and the people and creating a mental awakening of those heroes presently in service. 
Preamble 
The Ranaviru Sewa Authority was established by the Parliamentary act of no 54 1999.
Since its inception to date in the 12 years of existence the Authority has marched forward overcoming various obstacles and difficulties during this limited period of time but gained huge experiences that are incomparable.
There are a lot of unique reasons for the emergence of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority when one looks into its functions. 
The functions of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority are really supreme in the context of provision of a strong helping hand for the continuation of the future lives of children, wives and parents of  the gallant war heroes who sacrificed their lives or those  missing or lost their limbs in the fight of liberating our motherland from the cruel terrorism that was under the influence of specially both local and overseas conspirators  and  with a view to protect the liberty of the people and the country, their dignity, sovereignty and the territorial integrity. 
During the year 2011, the Ranaviru Sewa Authority implemented a number of projects and programmes to discharge this supreme functions and I state with gratitude to all those who supported in this endeavor that it reflects the collective efforts of all of us rendered for the provision of the significant service for the Rananiru community amidst various difficulties.
Focus was made during this year on organizing programmes of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority that did  not hider to  the corporate plan and the working programme of the Authority.
I am confident that all the experiences we had during this period would be very useful to achieve a more systematic and constructive progress in the coming year. 
To reach the expected heist in performances of an institution will depend on the parallel functioning of namely three areas of functions of the institution, the team and its personnel who make arrangements to make the functions a reality.
To elaborate, due to the non-identification of the role and inability to make it a success through collective efforts causes divisions in the group.
Development of such divisions in an institution may result in a negative impact on the whole functioning of the institution, following a breakdown of the trend of satisfying individual members of the group. 
We in the Ranaviru Sewa Authority, have understood this situation clearly and have made arrangements to discharge  the functions of the Authority systematically, this will result in the morale of the individual vying to high a level while mobilizing the collective efforts of the staff as a specific objective to achieve next year. 
The most important step that has been initiated in this regard is the reorganization of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority staff to make that structure more constructive and suit the modern requirements.
Steps are being taken to implement it next year.


Chairperson,  
Ranaviru Sewa Authority 
Our Functions 
(According to Ranaviru Sewa Authority Act no.54 of 1999) 
(a) To provide for the after care and rehabilitation of members of the Armed Forces and the Police Force who have become disabled in action
(b) To provide houses and to assist in building those  
(i)- Members of the Armed Forces and the Police Force who were disabled in action and
(ii)- The dependents of the members of the Armed Forces and the Police Force who have been killed or are missing in action   
(c) To provide or assist in the provision of medical care to 
(i)- Members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have become disabled in action and  
(ii)- The dependants of the members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have been killed or are missing in action
(d) To enable  
(i)- Members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have become disabled inaction and
(ii)- The dependants of the members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have been killed or are missing in action to have access to education and higher education by the provision of scholarships and other forms of assistance.
(e) To assist  
(i)- Members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have become disabled in action and   
(ii)- The dependants of the members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have been killed or are missing in action to secure gainful employment  
(f) To set up industrial, agricultural or commercial ventures with a view to providing employment to the  
(i)- Members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have become disabled inaction and 
(ii)- The dependants of the members of the Armed Forces and Police Force who have been killed or are missed in action 
(g) To take action and implement all necessary action for the achievements in  the functions of the Authority  
Targeted beneficiaries 
The mission of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority is to look after the welfare of a targeted group of beneficiaries identified under the specific category.
Those beneficiaries are, 
- Dependents of war heroes who have made the supreme sacrifice or missing in action in safe guarding the country and the nation numbering over 29934. 
- War heroes who were disabled in action in safe guarding the  motherland War heroes who lost their lives/missing and became disabled up to the year 2011 provincial wise
Province
War heroes who lost their lives (including those missing)
Disabled and retired war heroes
Total number of war heroes 
Southern Province
Western Province
Central Province
Sabaragamuwa Province
Uva Province
North West Province
North Central Province
North and East Province
Total
Number of families of war heroes who lost their lives/missing up to the year 2011 provincial wise 
Province
Married
Unmarried 
Objectives 
1. To establish an effective communication through mobilizing individual Ranaviru families scattered all over the island in a manner bringing honor and dignity to the Ranaviru name   
2. To create a team of Ranaviru family members with self- confidence and make them content
3. To ensure the ownership of a permanent house to each Ranaviru family
4. Provision of blocks of land for the land less Ranaviru families for the construction of houses   
5. Provision of financial assistance to the war heroes and their immediate families to meet urgent needs 
6. To uplift family members of war heroes with self- confidence
7. To engage the disabled war heroes to work with self- confidence
8. To set up model villages highlighting the Ranaviru name
9. To conduct National Ranaviru remembrance ceremonies reflecting our undying gratitude for the utmost services rendered by the war heroes and to add the names of war heroes of our era  to the history of our country 
10.To make war heroes who have protected the freedom independence and territorial integrity of the motherland at the cost of their lives or limbs or missing, immortal in the chronicle of Sri Lanka 
Approach for the year 2011 
The Ranaviru Sewa Authority since its establishment in 2000 for the welfare of the family members of war heroes who had made the supreme sacrifice for the protection of the independence of the country and those missing in operations and those who were made to retire on medical grounds following losing the limbs in operations and their family members has been planning and implementing programmes annually on ten priority areas during the past 11 years till 2010 and in 2011 commenced the implementation of progarmmes and projects under five areas.
This is in addition the welfare services that have been implemented for the benefit of the  present war heroes in the services. 
Project budget 
Money was spent on welfare services in the year 2011 with the approval of the Management Board according to the budget containing provisions for 05 areas of the authority and the media. 
The progress of the projects has been given under each head of project.
Board of management  
The Management Board comprised of the following members since the beginning of the year 2011. 
Staff of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority 
The Staff of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority comprises of permanent, contract and employees who are seconded for service. 
The number of staff members has not been increased though the number of programmes has gone up significantly in 2010 compared to those of its beginning.
We have made representations to the treasury on the instructions of the Management Board of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority on this status and the necessity and a workshop was also held with a view to planning our next course of action. 
In 2011 plans were prepared in this regard. 
During the last two years 14 trainees who were referred to us by the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) and were under going training at this authority were recruited on contract basis and in 2011 out of them 10 were employed another 04 NAITA trainees were also recruited in this year. 
These recruitments helped very much in the smooth functioning of the Authority.
Head office of the Authority 
The non--existence of a permanent building to house the Ranaviru Sewa Authority is the main problem encountered by the Authority from in the inception.
In 2009 it was able to buy a permanent building on Galle Road , near Bambalapitiya, The modification of that building to suit to an office with more upper floors was started in 2010.
It is expected to shift the Head quarters of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority to this building in first quarter of 2012. 
Receipt of financial assistance  
For the functioning of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority, financial provisions are provided through the following sources.  
1. From the annual treasury allocation for administration and other day today activities.  
2. For the implementation of projects financial contributions are made through Jayaviru lotteries and subsequently Supiri Wasana Sampatha 
In addition contributions in the form of cash and kind are donated by both local and foreign donors for the implementation of the welfare activities coming under projects of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority.  
Funds have been invested in banks with a view to generating income to meet the requirements of planning and the implementation of projects to meet the necessities of the Ranaviru beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority.  
A better investment plan was implemented for this.
Details of income received through the treasury and the lottery in the year 2011 have been indicated in this annual report in final accounts report.
Special programmes implemented during the year 2011  
1.Ranaviru Remembrance Week 
The first flag was pinned on His Excellency the President on 11th of May at Temple Trees. 
In parallel to this programme, during the Ranaviru remembrance week declared by the president (May 11 to 18th), arrangements were made to hold various programmes throughout the island.Ranaviru remembrance functions were held under the patronage of Provincial Governors.
2. National Ranaviru Remembrance Day 
The main function organized by the Ranaviru Sewa Authority to commemorate the war heroes who had made the supreme sacrifice for the protection of the country was held at the Ranaviru Monument at Sri Jayewardenepura parliamentary sports grounds under the patronage of H.E.the President.
The Three Forces and the Police conducted the traditional honor of guard The  Hon Prime Minister. Hon. Speaker Religious Dignitaries, Parliamentarians, Governors, Chief Ministers of provinces, Secretary to H,E, the President Secretary Defence and government officials, Joint  Chief of Satff, Commanders of the Three forces, Inspector General of Police, Heads of government institutions, Members of the Diplomatic Corp, Defense attaches of embassies, close relatives of he dead and missing war heroes and disabled war heroes were also present at this function. 
This function is held in May annually. 
3.Deyata Kirula 
The Ranaviru Sewa Authority had a stall at the Deyata Kirula exhibition grounds at Buttala held from 4th to 9th February to communicate to the people the government’s development drive with the participation of all government organizations and the private sector.
This exhibition was extremely useful to enlighten the public about the welfare services and other programmes undertaken by the Authority for the benefit of Ranaviru community 
4.Donation of three wheelers 
A donation of three wheelers was made to the disabled war heroes under a joint programme of disabled welfare and concessionary loan project of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority was held under the patronage of His Excellency the Prime Minister and other distinguished guests including the Commander of the Armed Forces, the event was held at the Army Grounds of Galle Face Green on the 18th of November 2011
Three wheelers were gifted to 170 disabled war heroes.
5.Presentation of UttamaPuja Pranama Medals 
A programme to present awards of Uttama Puja Pranama Medals to value their contribution to the parents of war heroes who offered their children to the battle field and wives and children of war heroes was held district wise. 
Accordingly, Uttama Puja Pranama awards ceremonies were held in 17 districts this year. 
Methodologies to achieve targets and objectives.
The authority implemented 10 projects on two main targets.
1. Bringing the Ranaviru families into the society with a strong morale and a pride of vision. 
2. Provision of material resources on a priority basis required for war heroes and their families to reach a higher living standard socially. 
All programmes on these two directions were prepared incorporating suggestions and ideas of the Ranaviru community and with the knowledge of experts.
The action plan prepared in that manner is being implemented with the consensus of the Ranaviru community. 
01. The following projects are being implemented for bringing the Ranaviru families into the society with strong morale and a pride he vision. 
1. Ranviru Community Project 
2. Psychosocial Support Project 
3. Welfare Project for disabled war heroes 
4. Ranaviru Remembrance Project  
5. Ranaviru Villages Project 
02. Projects for the provision of material resources on a priority basis required for war heroes and their families to reach a higher living standard socially. 
1. Housing Project 
2. Concessionary Loan Project 
3. Land Project 
4. Scholarships Project 
5. Skills Development Project 
In 2011 these projects were implemented under five categories taking into account the similarities of such subjects. 
1. Data and Information Division 
2. Division for Empowerment of Physical and Mental Health 
3. Education, skills and Economic Development 
4. Respect and Dignity of war heroes 
5. Social and Cultural Division 
1.Data and Information Division 
Objectives 
Maintenance of the Ranaviru data base 
Information analyzing and explanation 
1.Data and Information Division
One of the main objectives of the Data and Information division is the compilation of a data base containing details and information of service organizations in accordance with clause 9 and 3 of chapter 6th of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority act and maintaining it while being updated. 
Compilation of data base 
A software system has been developed with the assistance from Information Technology Education Department of the Moratuwa University.
The questionnaire has been finalized adding whole information related to socio-economic information of the Ranaviru community. 
They have obtained the assistance of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs to gather relevant details by visiting their houses.
Arrangements have been made to make  the data base operational in 2012 with the completion of the data survey. 
Serial no
Activities
Progress
Gathering internal information
Selection of a public institution with skills for membership survey 
Ended                        
Compilation of a fact sheet (adding Psychosocial and economic information)
Ended
Development of a software system under the supervision of the Authority
Ended
Selection of 15 survey conductors by each Provincial Officers and training them.
Ended
Conducting an initial survey and reviewing it
Ended 
Gathering data (With community , Grama Niladari,and Divisional Secretary)
In progress
Internal computer networking
Initial work has been commenced. 
Table 1  Development of Ranaviru Database. 
In 2012 Focus will be directed on the  following matters 
Computerization of information 
Conducting a 10% sample survey 
Speedy computerization of information in respect of each project 
Educating the staff on entire methodology 
Responding to the messages received through software 
Updating  members’ information   
Identification of members and conducting reviews 
Updating software at the provincial offices monthly and daily referring of them to officers in charge of provinces 
Translation and Computerization of list of names for gazette notification  
The main objective of this is the preparation of the list of names of the recipients of the Uttama Puja medals on district basis to be gazetted.
Lists of districts of Kandy,Puttalam, Polonnaruwa, Colombo, Kalutara, Gampaha, Batticloa, Trincomalee, Badulla, Kegalle, Anuradhapura, Kunuragala, Hambantota and NuwaraEliya are available.
Targeted numbers  
Progress during the year 
447819(Approximately)
Table 2. Translation and Computerization of list of names for gazette notification
Issue of identity cards to close relatives of war heroes for the purpose of granting priority 
As a remedy to a main problem encountered by the Ranaviru community at the regional level in giving priority, at the request of the Ranaviru community and under the guidance of the Ministry of Defence, identity cards are issued to close relatives of ranaviru families to establish they are members of Ranaviru families.
1043 identity cards exceeding the target of 1000  were issued in 2011 to close relatives of ranaviru families. 
year
targeted numbers
progress 
Table 3. Issue of identity cards to close relatives of war heroes for the purpose of granting priority 
Diagram 2. Issue of identity cards to close relatives of war heroes for the purpose of granting priority 
A long period of time is required  to issue the entire number when considering the manner they apply for them and a much time has to be spent to complete the related work till the issuance. 
Hence as an alternative arrangements have been made to issue identity cards to close relatives of Ranaviru families  using the data base from 2012 
Provision of Financial assistance over a death of a war hero or any other disaster  
At the same time the family of such a war hero is enrolled to the Ranaviru community  project. 
Financial assistance has been granted in the following manner.   
Year
Targeted numbers 
Progress for the year
Table 4. Provision of Financial assistance over a death of a war hero or any other disaster.  
Diagram 3. Provision of Financial assistance over a death of a war hero or any other disaster.  
All payments in respect of the year 2011 were made. 
Supporting the Uttama Puja Pranama Medals presentaion 
List of names and relevant details were furnished for the Uttama Puja Pranama Medals presentation. 
Printed lists of names and the summary of information in respect of the Hambantota and NuwaraEliya were provided. 
02. Empowerment of physical and mental health  
I. Psychosocial support project 
01. Health clinics 
Health clinics held in 2011 
Serial no. 
Date and place
27.11.2011 – at Buttala Divisional Secretariat for the Monaragala district community  members( during the Deyata Kirula exhibition)  
10.06.2011- at Nagoda Family Care Hospital ,Nagoda for Kalutara district community  members (during  the National Ranaviru month) 
13.12.2011- The medical clinic scheduled to be held at the Kabithigollewa Central College was postponed due to urgent work.
02. Obtaining assistance of consultants of outside institutions 
Initial coordination was arranged but it was decided to implement in 2012 due to a decision of the restructuring programme structure (As instructed by the Chairperson)    
03. Psychological programme 
Serial No
Province
District
Date and Venue
programme
No. of programme
Western
Colombo    
Gampaha
17.12.2011-Mahara Pradeshiya Sabha 
Psychological workshop
Kalutara
South
Galle    
Matara    
Hambantota    
Central
Kandy    
Matale    
Nuwaraeliya    
Uva
Badulla    
Monaragala    
Sabaragamuwa
Kegalle    
Ratnapura    
North Central
Anuradhapura
Two-day residential training workshop for Disabled war heroes     
Abhimansala Suwa Sewa Nikethana,Anuradhapura
Polonnaruwa    
Eastern
Ampara    
Trincomalee    
North western
Kurunegala
13.10.2011 – Shilpa Shalika Hall,Kuliyapitiya
Psychological workshop
Puttalam
22.11.2011- Sudasuna Hall, Chillaw
Psychological workshop
Total
04. Practical difficulties that emerged in organizing workshops 
The targeted schedule of conducting programmes could not be achieved in the backdrop of the failure in the part of the provincial officers who were entrusted the job of organizing necessary programmes at the  provincial level and educating about the project. 
05. Medical Assistance 
The targeted objective of this programme is granting financial assistance to war heroes and members of the  Ranviru families who need treatment / surgeries due to serious ailments who  face financial difficulties as they belong to the low income group.  
2011 targeted number of financial assistance 
on requests as and when received Allocation for 2011
Amount of financial assistance granted - 
Number of applications issued in 2011 - 
Number of requests received 
Written requests
Through telephones (approximately)
Medical Assistance Programme 
Serial No.
Applicant's Name
Community / D.S
War hero's 
Name
Service/servicex.No. 

Ambagamuwa



Ambagamuwa

Medadummbara

Talawa

Matale


Kuruwita

Meegahakiula

Yatinuwara

Horana


Galgamuwa

Horambawa 

Pathadumbara

East
Kandy 

Kesbewa

Alawwa


Kuliyapitiya West

Talawa

Mawanella
Remarks 
03. Approval of the management board was granted to decide by a special panel on the monthly assistance that could be granted when a beneficiary is unable to submit a specific financial estimate for treatment. 
06. Granting medical loans  
Number of loans targeted for 2011 -20 
Number of loans granted in 2011 -05 
Number of applications issued in 2011 -20 
Number of request letters received in 2011   
Written -08 
Through Telephone (approximately) -07 
Direct requests calling at the project  -05 
Medical Relief Loan programme 
Serial No
Applicant
Service/community 
Service number 

Navy

Army

Police
Sub-Inspector 

Army

Army
The majority of applicants who applied for the medical relief loan programme during the last years were war heroes in service. 
There is a decline in the  of number of requests for Medical Relief Loans received this year in comparison to other years, This is due to  Army welfare unit introducing a special medical loan programme in 2011 for members of the army in service. 
Reasons for non-obtaining loans by some/ certain applicants half way during the process . 
01. Inadequacy of remaining service period of most of the medical relief applicants being an obstacle in releasing loans. 
02. Minimizing the need of obtaining loans as applicants are receiving sufficient financial assistance for surgeries. 
03. Inability of obtaining loans prior to the surgery. 
04. Rejecting acceptance of loans made by applicants since they were unable to obtain it as they had undergo surgeries suddenly.  
07. Ranaviru children’s skills evaluation programme 
This programme is meant to evaluate the skills of children of hose dead or missing, disabled and in service war heroes and their siblings . 
Applications were entertained from 2009 to December 2010 and winners were selected and categorized at various levels out of those applications. 
The main function was held at John de Silva Theatre ,Colombo 7 on 07.04.2011.
Those winners included 310 who excelled in education, sports, esthetics, languages and activities out of subject. 
The Selection of the 2010 winners provincial wise for children’s skills evaluation programme is as follows 
Serial No.
No. of winners  
08. Single Counseling (Psycho Counseling Support) 
Single Counseling support was extended to the war heroes and members of their families who sought such a service regarding their mental and family problems and we rereferred to the Psychosocial Division during the year. 
Persons who sought single counseling support were referred to the counseling officer of the Department of Social Services at the closest Divisional Secretariat, as there is no suitable place in the building, where the head office is temporarily housed. 
Activities engaged in other projects of the Authority 
01. Inspection of houses being built in the Monaragala district and scheduled to open in parallel to the Deyata Kirula exhibition that took place on 5th and 6th of January.
02. Participated in Wellawaya community  meeting in the Monaragala district on 7.01.2011 representing the Authority. 
03. Supported the initial organizing work and participated in  Ranaviru Day function. 
04. Supported the organizing work and participated in the distribution of three wheelers organized by the Disabled ranaviru welfare project.  
05. Supported the distribution of letters in respect of yhe Uttama Puja  Pranama medal awards presentation. 
Activities carried out in coordination with  outside institutions 
Institution
Date and Venue
Programme 
Programmes conducted with Family Planning Association
13.09.2011-Anuradhapura  Northern camp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme
14.09.2011-Medawachchiya women corp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme
15.09.2011- Oddusudan Army camp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme 
04.10.2011-Mankulam Army camp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme
05.10.2011-Kilinochchi Army camp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme
06.10.2011-Kankasnathurei Women’s Army corps.camp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme 
18.10.2011-Dehiattakandiya Army camp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme
03.11.2011-Trincomalee Navy camp
Health Clinic and Counseling Programme
Common difficulties 
01. Non-receipt of adequate support from certain provincial officers in organizing workshops generally being held outside the Head Quarters. 
02. Sending time for urgent special programmes at the cost of general programmes. 
03. Problems encountered by the staff due to inadequacy of space in the office.  
04. All three persons attached to the project are women. 
Services of an officer are needed for technical and other requirements in organizing outside workshops and other related activities. 
II. Disabled Ranaviru welfare project 
01.Distribution Three Wheelers -2011 
Objective 
To ensure that the war hero and his family members are well placed in the society in a strong position both mentally and economically through measures for averting transport difficulties he faces due to becoming disabled and easing transport means of their family members  and providing opportunities for them to contribute for the development of the liberated country, 
Target group 
The disabled war heroes of the Armed Forces and the Police who were made to retire on doctor’s recommendations following being disabled in action and the disabled war heroes of the Armed Forces and the Police who have to remain at home on medical grounds. 
Progress 
The target for the year has been achieved 
Assistance for sanitary facilities -2011 
Objective 
Provision of financial assistance for the building a bath room with a security fence for use of the disabled war heroes as a step of relieving them from difficulties they face in the day today work. 
Making travel arrangements up to the house of the war hero and for providing other necessities. 
Target group 
The disabled war heroes of the Armed Forces and the Police who made to retire while on duty on doctor’s recommendations  
The Service 
 
Progress 
The target for the year has achieved 
Equipments for the disabled 2011 
Equipment
Quantity 
Artificial foot
Hand aid
Wheel chairs
Hearing aid
Equipments needed for disabled war heroes such as artificial feet, hand aid, wheel chairs, hearing aid, crutches, water beds are distributed with the support of local and foreign donors as a step of relieving them from difficulties they face due their disability status. 
The Authority provided only one artificial foot 
Residential training workshops for the disabled war heroes - 2011
Objective 
The activities under taken during this assignment include looking after the welfare of the disabled war heroes and their  family members, encouraging them to initiate self employment programmes  as a measure of enhancing the economy, guiding for  bhawana  for boosting  of the morale and spiritual wellbeing and presentation of cultural items for their entertainment With the participation of resource persons these workshops are held for two days at the provincial level. 
Progress 
A workshop was successfully concluded at Monaragala in the Uva Province.  
03.Education, Skills and Economic Development Division 
I. Skills Development Project
Introduction  
Improvement of the earning capacity of families of those dead, missing, retired with disability and in service war heroes who have done much for safe guarding the country and the people, through enhancing capacity while imparting practical and theoretical knowledge in different fields to suit to their education qualifications and talents. 
Vision 
Enhancement of the earning capacity of family members of war heroes according to their capacity and talents 
Mission 
Creating a conducive back ground for family members of war heroes while improving their self confidence, identifying their skills and directing  them to courses and assignments with a view to imparting technical and technological knowledge and training to suit their skills and direct them to the  income generating process. 
Objectives 
To make family members of war heroes a group bringing with self-confidence and skills by making an attitudinal change in them 
Identifying the training needs based on talents and skills of Ranaviru family members and guide  them for imparting technical and technological knowledge and training and making available opportunities. 
Being referred for jobs and encouraging them for self-employment. 
Enhancement of thrift and savings of Ranaviru family members 
Skills Development Project 
Development of computer centers 
Awarding semi scholarships for educational and vocational courses 
Granting village advisory allowances 
Conducting language courses 
Granting aid for self employment  
Conducting provincial workshops on self employment 
Granting loans for self employment  
Granting loans for skills development  
Linking with various institutions to meet the needs of family members of war heroes through skills development project 
Special projects under the skills development projects 
New computer centers and Development of existing  computer centers 
One important task of the skills development project is to make provision for family members of the war heroes and of those who retired with disability improve their computer knowledge. 
50 computer centers are being effectively run by the Authority as of the end of 2011. 
Most of computer maintenance jobs of these computer centers were done using the knowledge and skills of the project without bearing additional costs.
Progress of computer centers was reviewed this year as well and the progress and deficiencies were brought to the notice of the chairperson, the project manager and provincial officers in writing.
Instructors’ fees were paid only to the instructors who completed the specific number of hours of teaching. 
Examinations were conducted for students who completed computer courses and certificates were issued to about 200 students who completed the courses successfully. 
The Telecommunication Regulatory Commission contributed for the development of infrastructure of computer centers this year. 
Conducting workshops for Computer Instructors 
A two day training workshop for Computer Instructors at the computer centers of the Authority scattered through out the island was held at the Moratuwa university on 3,4 December 2011 in collaboration with the Moratuwa university with full support of the Vice Chancellor, the Dean of the Information Technology faculty and the staff. 
Categorization of computer centers provincial wise 
Western Province
1. Agalawatta
2. Nugedolawatta
3. Udupila Delgoda
4. Keragala
5. Wathupitiwala
6. Kosgama
7. Dodamgoda  
8. Dompe  
9. Gampaha  
10.Walbotalegama  
Sabaragamuwa
1. Mawanella 
2. Nivitigala 
3. Balangoda
4. Kegalle 
5. Embilipitiya 
6. Rambukkana 
Central
1. Balagolla
2. Walpane
3. Hanguranketha
4. Ganga Ihala Korale
5. Ukuwela 
6. Galewela
Uva
1. Madulla 
2. Perahettiya 
3. Mahiyangana 
4. Wellawaya 
5. Passara 
6. Medagama 
7. Kataragama 
North Western
1. Ibbagamuwa
2. Nikaweratiya
3. Anamaduwa
4. Mallawapitiya
5. Polpitigama
6. Narammala  
South 
1. Mapalagama 
2. Lunugamwehera 
3. Weligama 
4. Lunama 
5. Neluwa 
North Central
1. Rambwa
2. Kekirawa
3. Galnewa
4. Medawachchiya
East 
1. Kantale 
2. Gomarankadawela 
3. Nawagampura 
4.Dehiattakandiya 
Locations of Computer centers
Computer training workshop – Moratuwa University 
Conducting English training workshops  
A workshop to train English Instructors selected from community  and the villages for improving English knowledge of family members of war heroes at community  and the villages was conducted on the 12th and 13 th of December at Hector Kobbekaduwa Agricultural Training Institute by the Skills Development project of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority.   
13 English Instructors participated in this workshop  
Awarding semi scholarships for educational vocational courses 
Granting skills aid 
The objective of this project is improving technical and technological education and vocational skills of children of war heroes with a view to pave the way for successful employment in future.  
Granting skills aid 
District wise
District
No of  beneficiaries 
Payment of village instructor’s allowance 
This programme has been designed to provide financial contributions, advise and make direction the upgrading the skills and technological proficiency in various fields. 
An instructor is paid of Rs, 4000 per month as an encouragement. 
Courses such as dancing, music, computer science, pre-schools and English language studies are used in this regard. 
Location of centers
Western 
1.Watupitiwela 
2.Keragala 
3.Kosgama 
4,Udupila 
Central 
1.Balagolla  
North Central 
1.Rambawe 
2.Kekirawa 
3.Galnewa 
Uva 
1.Perahettita 
2.Welimada 
North Western 
1.Ibbagamuwa 
East 
1.Kantale 
2.Nawagampura 
South 
1.Mapalagama 
Granting Self Employment aid -2011 
Under this project, financial assistance is given to the Ranaviru families of those dead, missing, retired with disability and those who die or become disabled while in service due to causes outside the operations, to begin a self employment or to improve an existing one.
 
The self employment target of 40 for 2011 was achieved by the end of year giving financial assistance to 40 beneficiaries. 
Progress of offering self employment assistance – Provincial wise 
Progress of offering self employment assistance – District wise 
Progress of offering self employment assistance – Industrial  wise 
Industry
No of beneficiaries 
Sewing clothes
Animal husbandry
Bridal  dressing
Brick making
Handicraft production
Groceries 
Sale of fruits
Mushroom cultivation
Sale of clothes
Making of brown paper bags
Making  alter wicks
Making of  door mats
Flower cultivation
Packaging of dates
Sale of toys
Sale of sweets
Grinding mill
Packeting lime
Packeting dried fish
Total
Progress of offering self employment assistance – Services wise 
Service
No of beneficiaries 
Army
Air force
Navy
Police
Total
Offering self employment assistance – break down for the years 
year
Number 
Total
4. Conducting workshops on self employment 
The aim of this effort is to identify the different self employment projects specified to some areas in the country and educate the interested Ranaviru families to  be engaged in them. 
Four workshops were held in 2011 in (04) provinces. 
North Western Province 
Workshop on the Batik industry 
Central Province 
Workshop on the manufacture of the glue for School, cleaning liquid for toilet and hand washing soap, and entrepreneurship 
Sabaragamuwa Province 
Workshop on the manufacture of sweets  
Western Province 
Workshop on the manufacture of  leather products 
05. Granting self employment loans 
Under this project loans are given to the families of those dead, missing, and those retired with disability to begin a self employment or to improve an existing one.  
The target for granting self employment  loans in 2011 was 25 and loans had been issued to 19  persons by the end of the year . 
Progress of granting self employment loans 
Progress of granting self employment loans- District wise 
Progress of granting self employment loans- Trade wise 
Trade
No. of beneficiaries 
Grocery
Sewing clothes
Home gardening
Carpentry
Betal cultivation
Sale of toys
Anthurium cultivation
Manufacture bag
Progress of granting self employment loans- Services wise 
Service
No. of beneficiaries 
Army
Air Force
Police
Navy
Granting skills development loans  
During 2011 under the skills development loan scheme loans were given to 13 beneficiaries selected from among close relatives (daughter, son, wife) of war heroes who had sacrificed their lives for the country and those presently in the service serving the country and for parents and siblings of the unmarried, for taking part in international competitions in accordance with their talents to bring glory to  the country.
Granting skills development loans-  2011 
1. World volleyball tournament of the disabled held in Kampuchea 2011 
2. To purchase air tickets to participate in 1st Volleyball tournament of the disabled played while being seated held in Beijing China 
3. For participating in a Karate competition held in India 
4. For participating in a Karate competition held in India 
Linkages with different institutions for meeting requirements of Ranaviru family members through Skills development projects
Arrangements were made through the skills development project, to link Ranaviru family members with different government and non-government institutions to meet their identified necessities such as job opportunities, getting jobs confirmed, following study and vocational courses, enhancement of artistic talent, and participating in trade exhibitions. 
Break down of beneficiaries who gained help through the linkages 2011 
Special Projects  under the Skills Development Project 
Holding a self employment products sale stall at the Dayata Kirula Exhibition 
A self employment products sales stall was opened at the Dayata Kirula Exhibition 2011- Buttala by the Skills and Economic Development project at which products of 15 beneficiaries were on display for sale. 
Annual progress in summary
Province
Self-employment Assistance
Self-employment Loans
Aid for studies & Courses
Skills Development Loans
II.Housing loans 
Objective
The objective of this project is to grant concessionary the loans under housing loan programme in order to raise wellbeing of the Ranaviru families economically and mentally. 
Granting housing loans 
Granting community  housing loans 
Granting village housing loans 
Granting housing loans for those in the service 
Housing loan programme - community  
The Ranaviru Sewa Authority has introduced this housing loan scheme to make the dream of a house of Ranaviru families a reality . 
Community housing loans are granted for the following purposes 
a. To build a new house 
b. To improve the existing house 
c. For  renovation  
The Ranaviru family members of the community are eligible for community  housing loans. 
01. Close relatives of war heroes who had died in action 
02. Close relatives of war heroes missing in action  
03. Close relatives of war heroes who became disabled in action and retired. 
Granting of community housing loans 2011 
Granting of community housing loans  
Services wise 
Service
No. of beneficiaries 
Army
Air Force
Navy
Police
Granting village housing loans 
The Ranaviru Sewa authority has introduced this housing loan scheme to make the dream of house of the Ranaviru families living in Ranaviru villages a reality. 
Village housing loans are granted for following purposes 
a. To build a new house 
b. To improve the existing house 
c. For  renovations  
The Ranaviru family members in the Ranaviru villages are eligible for village housing loans 
01. Close relatives of war heroes died in action 
02. Close relatives of war heroes missing in action  
03. Close relatives of war heroes who became disabled in action and retired 
The Ranaviru villages that received village housing loans in 2011  
The name of the village
No of loans granted 
Pelendagoda
Pasyala
Perahettiya
Lunugamvehera
Progress of granting village housing loans Graphics for year 2011
03.Housing loan programme- for those presently in the service 
The objective of this project is to grant concessionary loans under housing loan programme in order to help war heroes and the police presently in service to fulfill their aspirations. 
Concessionary loans are also available for the present members of the Armed forces and the police, The Loans percentages are: Army 40%, Navy 15%, Air Force15%, police 25%.
their loan applications can be collected from respective Welfare directorates. 
Parties benefited 
01. Members of the Armed services with at least 12 year service record (5 more year service period needed) 
02. Members of the police with at least 20 year service record (5 more year service period needed) 
Housing loan programme- for those presently in the service 
The Service
No. of beneficiaries 
Army
Air Force
Navy
Police
III. Educational scholarships project 
Introduction 
The Educational project of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority is operative in view of helping the children of war heroes who have died, missing, retired disabled while engaged in action for safeguarding the country and the people, and those who are presently in the services, to continue their education up to their higher education successfully . 
The scholarships categories 
1. Ranaviru children savings investment scholarships 
This scheme commenced in 2005 in collaboration with the National Savings Bank.
It also expected to improve their savings habit as this system allows the account holder to make private contributions to it.
This money is meant for the education of the children concerned and not for the enhancement of the family income. 
Most of the Ranaviru children presently belong to the lower age group and they enter the higher classes at the time of retirement of the War hero after completion of his service period of 12 or 22 years.
Further with the retirement of the War hero the family income declines. 
This happens at a time they need much money for the education of the child. 
It is imperative, to be prepared with, some form of investment being made for these children considering these facts.
As an initial step, this programme covering Ranaviru children who have shown remarkable results, is carried out in collaboration with the National Savings Bank, a leading state bank in the saving sector. 
The progress of awarding saving investment scholarships to Ranaviru children in 2011. 
Referred anticipated
Awarded 
Community members
Applications of community members were referred via community and all applicants who applied  were awarded with scholarships.
Distribution of scholarships among services 
Service
No.scholarships 
Army
Navy
Air Force
Police
S.T.F.
Distribution of scholarships according to district
2. Education scholarships   
It will be decided whether to make the payment for a year or two based on the Grade in which the student is studying. 
Progress in awarding educational scholarships in 2011 
Break down of awarding of scholarships among Services 
Districtvice sholarship distribution 
3. Scholarship awarding ceremonies 
Date
District
No.Scholarships to a District
Scholarships from the Kuwait Govt
Colombo(Kosgama)
Puttalam
Galle
Kurunegala
Kandy/ NuwaraEliya
Matale
Ampara
Badulla
Anuradhapura
Kalutara
Scholarships to Students who  passed the year 5 scholarship Examination
Annual Progress summory of scholarship project 
Serial  No.
programme
No. awarded 
Education scholarships(GCE O/L,A/L)
Ranaviru Children’s Savings Investment Scholarships
Scholarship awarding ceremonies
Number of scholarships
1V Foster parents programme 
Introduction 
The children of war heroes in the armed services and the police who are dead, missing and became  disabled while engaged in operations for the safeguarding the territorial integrity of the country, are the beneficiaries of this programme for the provision of scholarships with the support of local and overseas donors. 
In the event of the suspension of a scholarship it will be paid again with funds from the authority.
The payment will continue till the children sit for the GCE A/L and it is stopped thereafter. 
Objectives 
1. Helping school children of low income Ranaviru families to complete their education successfully untill their higher education 
2. Directing donations from local and overseas donors who are interested in the welfare of war heroes 
3. Arranging financial sponsorships of donors for the benefit of Ranaviru children with disabilities or those who are sick
Targeted groups 
1. School age children of war heroes who have died or have become disabled due  to causes outside operations and belong to the category of low income families   
2. School going children of war heroes who have become totally disabled, 
3. Disabled or ailing children of war heroes who are presently in service/dead/disabled or missing.
The scholarship count 0f the children of war heroes in the year 2011
Month
Scholarships initiated with the Authority’s funding
Scholarships initiated with contributions from donors
No. of payment-completed scholarships in the year 2011
Month
No. of Scholarships ceased  
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Total
The payment of money in aid was suspended since the beneficiary children have completed their studies and two children had died.  

Amount of Expenditure for the Authority funded scholarships – Rs. 2333500.00 

Amount of Expenditure for donor funded scholarships  
Medical aid for disabled and sick war heroes and children of war heroes
File no.
Name of the war hero or the child
Disabled status or ailment
Service rendered or money paid


A totally disabled war hero


A Ranaviru child who has lost her right foot 
This money still has been deposited in the account division and the beneficiary has been informed by a letter that money would be total amount required for the purchase of an artificial foot is collected.  

A Ranaviru who has suffered from disease in relation to muscles. 

A child suffering from a bone disease 

A child suffering from an eye ailment 
Distribution of new scholarships began 2011 district wise

In the year 2011 
The project received a large number of applications. 
Majority of them were returned due to shortcomings in them 
Arrangements were made to send letters informing each child who was selected and awarded a scholarship within the very same month.  
Arrangements were made to provide the donors with details of recipient children to whom they will provide aid. 
An acnowledgement confirming the receipt of money and a letter thanking for providing the funds were sent to each donor. 
In 2011, in addition to granting scholarships, arrangements were made to find money through donors, to meet the cost of providing electricity to the house of the mother of a war hero and to give school stationery to one Ranaviru child. 
V. Mapiya Surekum Programme 
Data in respect of new beneficiaries
No. of new recipients
No. of rejected applications
Amount paid in 2011  
Target of new beneficiaries for the year concerned
Number awarded 
Though it was expected to grant Mapiya Surekum to 150 persons only 113 were covered in 2011 since there were no applications from districts.
Provincial breakdown of new beneficiaries
Serial  No.
Province
No of new beneficiaries 
Central
Western
East
South
North Central
Sabaragamuwa
Uva
North Western
Payment for old beneficiaries 
Money is deposited twice a year (once in 6 months) in respect of beneficiaries covered by the Mapiya Surekum programme. 
The amount of first six months(January to June) 
Expenditure
The amount of last six months(July to December) 
Expenditure
Late deposits
Expenditure (January to June)
Late deposits
Expenditure (July to December)  
Roles and Daily Responsibilities:
Dealing with the Kirulapone Branch of the National Savings Bank where accounts of all parents of Mapiya Surekum programme have been opened 
Educating the parents to send their account books to the post office Branches of the National Savings Bank in their district. 
Arranging letters of awareness to post office branches through the National Savings Bank. 
Compilation of data base containing details of all beneficiary parents of Mapiya Surekum programme 
Making arrangements through salary and record division to get updated lists of names of parents who receive 25% of the salary  and the cancellation  the Mapiya Surekum accounts of parents who receive the salary   
Making arrangements for the cancellation of dead parents’ accounts 
Sending a list of new beneficiaries to all Community  Officers 
A request with relevant details, submitted to the Management Board for approval for granting Mapiya Surekum benefits to parents of war heroes who have died from non-operational causes was turned down. 
Compilation of project reports 
The letters sent by parents explaining problems were referred to the relevant authorities and replies were sent in respect of problems that could be resolved arrangements were made to reply correctly the telephone calls from beneficiaries and worked with relevant banks. 
As the Mapiya Surekum beneficiaries include elderly persons we have to attend often to jobs related to their accounts since most of them do not understand the details regarding the bank accounts  though they were repeatedly explained  
V1.Housing aid project 
New payments for 2011  
Expected number
Rejected number 
Number of payments made 
Target of new beneficiaries for the year concerned
Number achieved
Provincial breakdown of new beneficiaries
Serial No.

Arrangements were made to provide housing aid to 38 persons in the Anuradhapura District in view of the Deyata Kirula programme. 
Payment of installments to 16 beneficiaries was completed. 
District Officers have made arrangements to distribute cheques in respect of housing aid under the patronage of the Governors and the  beneficiaries were educated by this project. 
Value of payment of installments in respect of housing aid prior to 2011(January to July 2011) 
Serial No.
Province
2 No. of installments
3 No. of installments
Amount of money
Responsibilities and Roles
Preparing files of new beneficiaries and completion of shortcomings in the files  
Preparation of 2011 ledger as instructed by the Accounts Division and categorizing files on a district basis 
Preparation of a list of old housing aid recipients 
Obtaining progress reports on the work the old housing aid recipients who have completed the installments 
Sending letters to all the Community Presidents regarding the housing aid 
Referred the requests for housing aid received from close relatives of war heroes who have died from non-operational causes to Project Manager for the preparation of the list and necessary action. 
Educating the housing aid recipients 
Replying to letters regarding the housing matters and referring them to Provincial Officers and looking into problems brought up by beneficiaries over the phone. 
04. Ranaviru Honor and Dignity Division      
I. Ranaviru Remembrance Project  
The Ranaviru Honor and Dignity Division can be described as one of the principal and unique divisions of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority. 
The objective of this division is to create respect in the society towards the war heroes and creating self esteem in war heroes themselves and maintaining this social status consistently. 
This division has entered into several individual projects to achieve this objective. 
1. Conducting Ranaviru Remembrance ceremonies at the national and the regional levels      
2. Maintenance of Ranaviru monuments and parks and making necessary payments   
3. Ranaviru common welfare activities. 
Sub- programmes operative under this project 
1. National Ranaviru day 
2. Awarding of Ranaviru Uttama Puja medals 
3. Adorning of Ranaviru flags 
4. Provincial Ranaviru seminars 
5. Mailapitiya park maintenance and making payments 
6. Preventing activities detrimental to the Ranaviru name 
7. Ranaviru Remembrance programmes with outside institutions 
8. Regional Remembrance parks and halls 
Programmes conducted
Remembarance program conducted in national and provincial level
National Ranaviru day function was successfully held at the Parliamentary sports ground on May 18th 2011  
Awarding of Ranaviru Uttama Puja medals took place in 17 districts. 
Adorning of Ranaviru flags took place in 8 provinces. 
8 provincial Ranaviru seminars were held. 
One Ranaviru Remembrance programmes was conducted with outside institutions 

Maintenance Ranaviru monuments and parks and making payments 
Mailapitiya Park maintenance 
Water bills 
Electricity bills 
Telephone bills 
Payments for maintenance services 
Payments for maintenance items 
Payments due for building new Ranaviru monuments 
Ranaviru common welfare activities. 
Government service transfers of close relatives of war heroes 
Issue of recommendations and extending support necessary at the school’s entrance of Ranaviru children. 
Sending letters and assisting in securing building material at concessionary prices for building houses for Ranaviru families. 
Educating the relevant authorities and making arrangements to name roads in the name of war heroes 
(Recommendations and instructions were issued about appeals and requests that were being received daily in this regard.) 
Special Prgrammes
This medal awards presentation had a good influence on creating respect and self esteem towards the war heroes’ relatives in the name of the war hero.  
National Ranaviru Day function was successfully held at the Ranaviru monument at the Parliamentary sports ground with the participation of H.E. the President and the Secretary of Defence. 
Ranaviru celebrations were held at the regional and provincial levels through out the island recollecting the dignity of the war heroes and  to remind the people that the war heroes are a respectable group in the society the regional and provincial level ceremonies resulted in reaffirming the Ranaviru families as heroic families with dignity.
11. Land Project 
Introduction 
Provision of shelter to the relevant families is a very special and complex aspect in delivering the services of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority for the benefit of war heroes and their families. 
In most cases war heroes and their families encountered difficulties in finding places (land) to build houses even though encouragement with providing financial facilities are made available to get a suitable house built for living through the Housing and concessionary loan scheme. 
Non- availability of a block of land is a barrier to secure other welfare requirements. 
The land unit of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority took this situation into consideration making arrangements to provide blocks of land to war heroes and also helped indirectly to find them land for housing 
Vision. 
Provision of suitable land for housing and living 
Mission 
Provision of suitable land for war heroes and their families for building houses for living
Objectives 
a. Identification of landless war heroes and their families   
b. Identification of state land or other land that can be distributed among war heroes and preparation of such land suitable for distribution. 
c. Development of land earmarked  for distribution among war heroes 
d. Making arrangements with relevant institutions  for the distribution of land among  war heroes
01. Finding land  
Under this programme land will be reserved through Divisional Secretariats for distribution among war heroes 
Sending letters to Divisional Secretariats  for gathering information on un-identified blocks of land in all districts  
The identified land obtained through the above action is as follows 
No
District
Divisional Secretariat
Name of the land
Extent   
Kalutara
Bandaragama
Mahahena
11/2 acres 
Anuradhapura
Horawpathana
Morawewa village
300 Hac. 
Anuradhapura
Rajanganaya   
Kurunegala
Giribawa
Nirawiyagama  
Kurunegala
Rasnayahkepura
303,Udahenagama  
Kurunegala
Polpithigama
No.8 and 1l 0f Ac 40 r.02 p.28 1871 of Kadagatha wewa 
Puttalam
Arachhickattuwa
Grass land
Ac.35
Kudawairankattuwa
Ac 40 
Puttalam
Anamaduwa
649 Kottukachachiya
Ac.40
658 C Diulwewa
Ac 28 
Ac 100 
Badulla
Ridiamaliyadda
Bubulapitiya
Ac 40 
Badulla
Passara
Ihala Ambatenna
Ac40 
Ampara
Arrangements have been made with the Civil Defence Ministry and the Department of Prison to clear the land that is donated to the Authority and those earmarked for distribution in collaboration with Divisional Secretariats   
~ The services of government approved surveyors’ will be obtained to finalise the survey of these lands. 
02. Distribution of land 
01.Names of 210 war heroes who qualified at the interviews were sent to the Madurawela Divisional Secretariat for distribution land from Nagahakanda estate in Madurawela. 
Nagahakanda Estate in Madurawela 
Extent
- Ac19.77 
No. of blocks for distribution
- 210 
02. Meegahakiula Land, Badulla 
The list of 241 applicants in the Badulla District who had been referred to the Authority for obtaining land was recommended and sent to the Meegahakiula Divisional Secretariat. 
03.Development of land earmarked for distribution among war heroes 
Allocation of money to Divisional Secretaries for development of land earmarked for distribution among war heroes in collaboration with the Divisional Secretariat.  
Districts where the land observation was made are as follows 
Desiwattha- Akmeemana
- Galle 
Yakabedda Akuressa
- Matara 
Sooriyagahawela Koragahawela Land
- Hambantota 
Meegahakiula Land
- Badulla 
Telbeddawattha land
- Badulla 
Droping Wattha Land
- Badulla 
Hingurana Peranigama Damana
- Ampara 
Balangoda Meda Koralegama Land
- Ratnapura
4.Helping war heroes to get land and assisting them in settlement of land issues. 
Recommendations for land  
Some war heroes having applied for a block of land from the Mahaweli Authority requested our recommendation for it. 
In such cases their details will be collected through applications and those details will be forwarded to welfare directorate for approval.
so subsequently recommendations sent to institutions concerned Recommendations issued during the year are as follows 
Service
Army
Navy
Airforce
Police
Total 
Institution       
Mahaweli Authority
DivisionalSecretariat
Land Reform Commission
Land Commissioner’s offices
Helping war heroes to get land issues settled  
Letters received from the war heroes for securing help in solving problems such as getting deeds or licenses for the land they settled on and getting the approval for building a house are referred to institutions concerned requesting priority for them. 
Requests received during the year are as follows 
Matters 
Referred institution
Getting deeds or licenses
Settlement of land issuses and Approval for house building
other
Total
Mahaweli Authority
Divisional Secretariat
Land Reform Commission
Land Commissioner’s offices 
Housing Development Authority
Land Ministry and Other Institutes
Agrarian Service Department 
05. Social and Cultural Division 
1. Community  Project 
Budget 1: Community Cluster Programmes 
Expected No. 
Progress
Expenditure 
Completed No. 
Rs. 
Programmes
Programme to promote friendship of Kurunegala District community  members held on 21.04.2011 
Programme to promote friendship of Puttalam District community  members held on 24.04.2011 
Programme to promote friendship of Gampaha District community  members held on 22.04.2011 
Programme to promote friendship of Colombo District community  members held on 22.04.2011
Making arrangements for the unveiling of a Ranaviru monument erected by Naththandiya Ranaviru community.  
Unveiling of a Ranaviru monument  erected by Hanguranketha Ranaviru  community  on 07.06.2011 
Unveiling of Ranaviru monument  erected by Pujapitiya Ranaviru  community ya on 09.06.2011 
Making financial contribution for Pirith chanting pinkama organized  by Hanwella Ranaviru community ya 
Organized the participation of the wives  of war heroes for the Indonesian cultural show held on 07.09.2011 at BMICH 
Organized the participation of war heroes for a programme held at the Rupawahini Corporation 
A Function with the participation of war heroes ,was held at Dodamgoda entrance prior to the opening of  Southern Express way on19.11.2011 
The Ranaviru Sewa Authority and  the Western Province Ranaviru community  conducted a Bodhi puja on 24.11.2011at the Gangaramaya temple - Hunupitiya. 
Budget 2: District awareness 
Expected No. 
Completed No. 
Monthly progress
Expenditure
Rs.
District Committee meetings of Badulla and Monaragala of Uva Province were held on 07th & 08th of May 2011 
Kandy District Committee Meeting on 18.07/2011
Matale  District Committee Meeting on 19.07/2011 
Puttlam District Committee Meeting on 25.07/2011 
Ampara District Committee Meeting on 04.08/2011 
Badulla  District Committee Meeting on 08.08/2011 
Anuradhapura District Committee Meeting on 18.08/2011 
Kalutara District Committee Meeting on 22.08/2011 
Gampaha District Committee Meeting on 29.09.2011 
Polonnaruwa District Committee Meeting on 24.10.2011 
Budget: 3 Spiritual and social programmes 
Expected No. 
Completed No. 
Monthly progress
Amawaka Poya Day Religious Programme in June  
Taking part in the Religious Programme held at the Kebithigollewa Bodhiraja Temple organized by Kotavehera Ranaviru Community.
In October  the Amawaka porgramme was held at the Kahatagasdigiliya Viharaya 
Bhawana programme was held for disabled war heroes at the Sri Sudarsanarama Viharaya, Polgasowita on 20.12.2011 for their spiritual benefit.  
Budget 4: Retaining the membership and making a success the actions of community  
Expected No. 
Completed No. 
Progress
Annex  01 
Property, Plant and Equipment 
General Account 
Descriptions
Office Furniture & equipment
Plant,Machinery & other office equipment    
Vehicles
Total 
Cost as at 1 st January 2011
Additions
Disposables/Adjustment 
Cost as at 31st December 2011
Depreciation 
Accumulated Depreciation 
as at 1st January 2011
Income & Expenditure A/C
Accumulated Depreciation 
as at 31st December 2011
Net book Value 
as at 31st December 2011
Projects Accounts 
Descriptions
Building & Structures
Office Furniture
Plant,Machinery & other office equipment
Vehicles
Total
Cost
As at 1st January 2011  
Additions
Disposables/Adjustment 
Cost
As at 31st December 2011
Depreciation 
Accumulated Depreciation 
as at 1st January 2009  
Disposables/Adjustment
Income & Expenditure A/C
Accumulated Depreciation 
as at 31st December 2011
Net book Value
as at 31st December 2011 
Annex 02 
Fixed Deposit 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Education Project
Ranaviru Remembrance & Benevolent Project
Annex 03 
Stocks 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Ranaviru Remembrance & Benevolent Project
Stocks have been valued at lower of cost and net realizable value after making due allowing for obsolete items.
Annex 04 
Short term Investment -Bank OF Ceylon 
General Account
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs
04-1 Repos Investment 
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Concessionary Loan Project
04-2 Treasury bill Investment 
Ranaviru Remembrance & Benevolent Project
04-3 Fund Management Account 
General Account
Housing Project
Education Project
Skill Dev. Project
Socio - Psychosocial Project
Ranaviru Remembrance & Benevolent Project
Disable War Heroes Project
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 05 
Loan Balances 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs      
05-1 Receivable Interest income 
Treasury bill Interest income   
Ranaviru Rememb. & Benevo. Pro.
Fixed Deposit Interest income 
Education Project
Saving Account Interest income
Disable War Heroes Project NSB
05-2 Loan 
Distrest Loan
Concessionary Loan Project 
1. Housing loan  (Service)
Housing loan  (community )
Housing loan  (Gammana)
2. Medical loan
3. Self Employment loan
4. Three wheal loan
5. Education loan
Education Project     
Education loan
05-3  Service Charges 
Concessionary Loan Project 
1. Housing loan  (Service)
Housing loan  (community )
Housing loan  (Gammana)
2. Medical loan
3. Self Employment loan
4. Three wheal loan
5. Education loan
05- 4  Jayaviru lottery income
05-5 Housing Project
Psychosocial Project
05-6 Advance 
Housing Project
Education Project
Psychosocial Project
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Disable War Heroes Project
Concessionary Loan Project
05-7 Festival Advance 
General Account
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 06 
Deposits       
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs
General Account
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Annex 07 
Saving Accounts balances
Projects 2011 
Rs 
SMIB -Housing Project
NSB- Education Project
NSB- Psychosocial Project
Bank Of Ceylon -Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Annex 08 
Cash Balance 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs
BOC- General Account
BOC- Housing Project
BOC- Education Project
BOC- Skill Dev. Project
BOC- Psychosocial Project
BOC- Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
BOC-Disable War Heroes Project
BOC- Concessionary Loan Project
Aneex 09
Current Liabilities
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs
09-1 Personal Emoluments 
Salaries Payable A/C
Accrual  EPF
Accrual  ETF
Accrual Over time & holyday pay 
Concessionary Loan Project
Accrual  Allowances 
Concessionary Loan Project
09-2 Traveling Expenses 
Concessionary Loan Project
09-3 Supplies Expenses 
Stationary
Fuel & Lubricants 
Concessionary Loan Project
09-4 Maintenance Expenses 
Vehicle Repairs
Building Maintenance 
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
09-5 Contractual Services 
Accrual Transport /rent Concessionary Loan Project
Accrual  Telephone Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Concessionary Loan Project
Accrual  Electricity Concessionary Loan Project
Accrual  Security Service Expenses
Accrual  Janitorial Service Expenses
Accrual  News paper
Accrual  Audit Fees
Accrual Translations fees Concessionary Loan Project
Accrual  Plant, Machinary& equipment
Accrual  Office Furniture & Equipments
09-6 Others 
Creditors -S Jayathilake
09-7 Housing Project 
Accrual  Donation (Housing)
09-8 Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project 
Government functions
Ranaviru Park Maintenance
Accrual  Meadia activities of all project payable
Accrual  Publication Royalty
Accrual  Bills
09-9 Concessionary Loan Project 
Refund A/C
Other payablles
Aneex 10 
Non-Current Liabilities 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs
A Provision for Gratuity 
Balance as as 01st January 2011  
Add 
Provision for the period
Less 
Gratuity piad
Balance as as 31st December 2011 
Annex 11 
Interest income 
11- 1 Repos/Fund Management Interest income 
General Account
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Concessionary Loan Project 
11- 2 Treasury bill Interest income 
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project 
11- 3 Fixed Deposit Interest income 
Education Project   
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project 
11- 4 Saving Account Interest income
Housing Project 
Education Project  
Psychosocial Project 
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project   
Annex 12 
Service Charges 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Concessionary Loan Project 
1. Housing loan  (Service) 
Housing loan  (community ) 
Housing loan  (Gammana)  
2. Medical loan  
3. Self Employment loan   
4. Three wheal loan    
5. Education loan 
Annex 13 
Ranaviru Flage Sales income  
Projects 2011 
Rs
Housing Project
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Annex 14 
Donations 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
14- 1 Donations Local 
Education Project
Disable War Heroes Project
14- 2 Donations Forigen 
Education Project
Annex 15 
Others 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011  
Other receipt
General Account
Housing Project
Psychosocial Project
Ranaviru Rimem. & Benivo. Project
Disable War Heroes Project
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 16 
Personal Emoluments 
Annex
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Salaries & Wages
E.P.F
E.T.F
Gratuiry
Over time, Holiday pay
Allowances
Annex 17 
Travelling Expenses 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Domestic 
Housing Project
Education Project
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 18 
Supplies 
Annex
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Stationery & Office requisites
Fuel & Lubricants
Entertainment & Sundry expenses
Annex 19 
Maintenance Expenses 
Annex
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Vehicle Repairs 
Office Equipment Repairs
Building Maintenance
Annex 20 
Contractual Services
Annex
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Transport
Telecommunication
Postal Charges
Electricity
Water
News papers
Licencence & Insurance
Janitorial Service
Security Service
Rents
Consultancy service
Annex 21 
Other Recurrent Expenses
Annex
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Audit fees
Office Equipment Service
Printing
Translation fees
Training Expenses
Others  Expenses
Annex 22 
Projects Operating Expenses 
Annex
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Housing Project
Education Project
Psychosocial Project
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Disable War Heroes Project
Project transferred
Annex  23 
Finance cost 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
23- 1 With holding tax 
Housing Project  
Education Project 
23- 2 Debit Tax 
Housing Project
Education Project  
Psychosocial Project  
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project 
Concessionary Loan Project
23- 3 Bad Debeters
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 24 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 
Annex
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Short term Investment
Saving Accounts balances
Cash at Bank
Annex 25 
Adjestment 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Housing Project 
Skill Dev. Project
Disable War Heroes Project 
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 26 
Salaries & Wages 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
General Account  
Housing Project 
Education Project 
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 27 
E.P.F  
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
General Account 1516583.31   
Housing Project 32976.00 
Education Project 39571.20
Concessionary Loan Project  
Annex 28 
E.T.F 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
General Account    
Housing Project   
Education Project  
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 29 
Gratuiry
General Account 2011
Projects 2011
General Account 
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 30 
Over time, Holiday pay 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
General Account 
Concessionary Loan Project  
Annex 31
Allowances 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
General Account  
Housing Project 
Psychosocial Project 
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 32 
Stationery & Office requisites 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
General Account 
Housing Project   
Education Project 
Psychosocial Project 
Disable War Heroes Project
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 33 
Fuel & Lubricants 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
General Account    
Housing Project   
Education Project 
Psychosocial Project  
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project  
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 34 
Entertainment & Sundry expenses 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
General Account   
Housing Project 
Disable War Heroes Project 
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 35 
Vehicle Repairs 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs
General Account 
Housing Project 
Education Project 
Psychosocial Project  
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 36 
Office Equipment Repairs 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
General Account  
Housing Project 
Education Project   
Disable War Heroes Project 
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 37 
Building Maintenance 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
General Account  
Housing Project  
Psychosocial Project 
Annex 38 
Contractual Services 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
Transport 
General Account 
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 39 
Telecommunication 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
General Account 
Housing Project 
Education Project  
Disable War Heroes Project
 Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 40 
Postal Charges 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
General Account  
Housing Project  
Education Project  
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 41 
Elecricity Expenses 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011
Rs 
Rs 
General Account 
Housing Project  
Education Project 
Annex 42 
Water 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
General Account   
Housing Project  
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 43 
Licencence & Insurance 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Housing Project    
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 44 
Rents 
General Account 2011
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs 
General Account   
Housing Project 
Annex 45 
Consultancy service 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
General Account 
Housing Project 
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 46 
Office Equipment Service 
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Concessionary Loan Project   
Annex 47 
Printinng 
Projects 2011 
Rs
General Account 
Disable War Heroes Project
Annex  48 
Translation fees 
Projects 2011 
Rs     
General Account 
Housing Project 
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 49  
Training Expenses 
Projects 2011 
Rs     
General Account 
Concessionary Loan Project 
Annex 50 
Others  Expenses 
General Account
Projects 2011 
Rs 
Rs  
General Account  
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project 
Disable War Heroes Project
Concessionary Loan Project
Annex 51 
Housing Project Operating Expenses 
Projects 2011 
Rs          
Donation (Housing) 
Development of Lands insfastructor facilities 
Land Expences 
Donation for lands 
Function Organisation 
Officers & Members Training Pro.   
Activated Rana viru community  & Members Attraction 
community  District comity Meeting    
Mobil Service & community  Pokuru  programme 
community  Id Card  
community  Account Opening 
Emergency Subsidies Programme  
Dudaru kusalatha programme 
ranaviru suwada   
Home & Industrial  tranning  Programme    
Rana viru Gammana Prejasala 
Adarsha Ranaviru gammana Programme  
Organisation Works 
Annex  52 
Education Project Operating 
Expenses 
Projects 2011 
Rs          
Donation (Housing)
Function Organisation  
NSB Hapan Scholarship (O/L,A/L)  
Froster parents Scholarship 
Special   Scholarship Donation 
Special Donation 
Self Employment Donations  
Self Employment Traning Programme  
Instructors fees 
Donatoin for new computers 
Festival activitis of Computer center 
Computer Certificate 
Traning Instructors  
Harf Scholaship for technical & Educational Course 
Rana viru Gammana  Instructors Fee 
Mapiya Surakum Programme   
Mapiya Surakum Programme inspection 
Annex 53 
Psychosocial Project Operating Expenses 
Projects 2011 
Rs          
Meadia activities of all project 
Data Collection 
Annex 54 
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project Operating Expenses 
Projects 2011 
Rs      
Join with National events  
Ranaviru Park Maintenance 
National Ranaviru day Expenses
work with External Institution1 
Medil Programme 
Meadia activities of all project 
Annex 55
Disable War Heroes Project Operating Expenses 
Projects 2011 
Rs
Function Organisation   
Medical Related Aids 
MEDICAL CLINIC 
Psychosocial Programme  
Psychosocial skill tranning Programme 
Donation for Disable war Heroes (Bathroom & Fittings) 
Disable war Heroes Training  Programme
Annex 56 
Project transferred 
Projects 2011 
Rs
Housing Project 
Education Project
Skill Dev. Project 
Psychosocial Project
Ranaviru Rimem.& Benivo. Project 
Disable War Heroes Project 
Concessionary Loan Project 
Actions was initiated to reactivate the inactive Ranaviru community and the revival of community in the Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa Districts from August 01 to 07 2011.
The Chairperson made a visit to look into the situation of Mundalama community - 2011.11.16.  
Total Amount 
Expenditure heading 5: Financial assistance in emergencies  
Expected No.
Completed No. 
Progress
Note 
Assistance 
Total
Expenditure heading 6: Leadership Training workshops  
Expected No. 
Completed No.
Monthly progress
Note
Expenditure heading 7: National and regional functions  
Expected No.
Completed No. 
Progress
Note 
Participation in the discussion held in Anuradhapura regarding the Deyata Kirula exhibition (2012 Deyata Kirula) 
Total
Other notes 
Organized community members for National Ranaviru day 2011
Presidents and Secretaries of all community were informed by letters about the National Ranaviru day
Obtaining lists of names of members participating in the function from all community  
Issued permits to all those members
Arrangements were to ensure the members’ participation in the National Ranaviru day ceremony. 
Letters were sent to community secretaries requesting details of Ranaviru community accounts.  
Letters were sent to community presidents informing of the National Tree Planting day on 15.11.2011
Letters requesting the participation of community members to the function to be held at Dodamgoda entrance prior to  the  opening ceremony of Southern Express way were sent  to community  of Agalwatta. Palindanuwara. Dodamgoda. Bulathsinhala.Matugama. Walalawita, and Kalutara.
Arrangements were made to pay the transport and corporate allowance to Provincial Officers. 
Arrangements were made to pay monthly allowance to trainees of the National Apprenticeship board   while being attached to Provincial Offices. 
Coordinated the community meetings that were held at the Divisional secretariats by the Provincial Officers. 
Remarks 
Money allocated for Social and Cultural Division under 6 budget in 2011 was not used for any work,This division undertook several activities for the achievement of the targets set by the Ranaviru Sewa Authority for them. 
All programmes of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority are operative at the provincial level and that process is based on the relationship between the Provincial Officers and the Ranaviru community.   
Hence we made aware of Provincial Officers about all programmes, break down of allocation of provisions, provincial wise, and organization of these programmes in 2011. 
We made arrangements to gather information from Ranaviru community  regarding the two prime programmes namely Ranaviru community  Federation and the annual awareness programme under this action, information in respect of community  office bears and community  accounts was collected. 
The Mapiya Surekuma programme for the benefit of Ranaviru parents is operative under the Economic Development Division Initial work such as providing necessary information and selection of beneficiaries is the responsibility of the Ranaviru community  and Provincial Officers This also covers compilation of information needs for the voted programme. 
Programmes are also operative from the Children’s scholarship and mental empowerment programmes. 
Our division, under the allocated vote, was unable to organize any programme other than gathering information  
II.Ranaviru Village programme 
Expenditure heading 1:  Ranaviru Village  Home gardening programmes (RVSA/08/01) 
1.Paid  for purchasing tools and seeds for the home gardening programme of Nawagampura Ranaviru village.
2.Supplying plants and seeds for home gardening  programme of the Walbotale Ranaviru village 
3.Supplying cash prizes to winners from 1st and 6th place of home gardening contest of Ampara Nawagampura Ranaviru village.
4.Payment of 3rd installment for the construction of textile building of the Ibbagamuwa Ranaviru village 
5.Supplying cash prizes for winners of home gardening contest of Mapalagama Ranaviru village. 
6.Supplying cash prizes for winners from 1st to 6th place of the home gardening contest of the Walbotale Ranaviru village. 
Expenditure heading 2:  Friendship promotion programmes among Ranavitu Villages (RVSA/08/04) 
1. Supplying prizes for the Bakmaha Ulela conducted by the Watupitiwala Ranaviru village
2. Supplying prizes for the Bakmaha Ulela conducted by the Digana Rajawella Ranaviru village 
3. Supplying prizes for the Aurudu festival conducted by the Nugedolawattha Ranaviru village 
4. Supplying prizes for the Bakmaha Ulela conducted by the  Virusahana Ranaviru village 
5. Supplying prizes for the Bakmaha Ulela conducted by  the Galnewa Ranaviru village 
6. Supplying bags for the  Salawa Ranaviru village 
7. Supplying Loudspeakers to the Salawa Ranaviru village 
8. Supplying prizes for the Bakmaha Ulela conducted by the Pelendagoda Ranaviru village 
9. Supplying prizes for the Bakmaha Ulela conducted by the Mapalagama Ranaviru village 
10. Participating at a function for handing over of deeds to the Ranaviru families of the Salawa Ranaviru village 
11. Paying cash for pirith chanting pinkama at the Pelendagoda Ranaviru village on 25 and 26.06.2011 
12. Paying cash for a pirith chanting pinkama at the Lunama Ranaviru village on 03.08.2011 
13. Attending foundation laying for housing ceremony at Galgamuwa Ranaviru village on 27.10.2011 
14. Attending a concert of pre-school children of Watupitiwala Ranaviru village and inspection tour to Walbotale Ranaviru village 
Expenditure heading 3: Infrastructure for Ranaviru villages (RVSA/08/05)   
1. Payment of balance installments for the construction of community hall building at Nugedolawatta Ranaviru village. 
2. Granting funds for the construction of community hall building at Welawaya Ranaviru village. 
3. Payment of final installment for the construction of community hall building at Perahettiya Ranaviru village 
4. Attending the inauguration of construction of community hall building at Hunumulla navy Ranaviru village 
5. Surveying construction of community hall building at Nugadola wattha Ranaviru village(twice) 
6. Payment of first installment for the construction of community hall building at Galnewa Ranaviru village 
7. Inspection tour on community hall building built at Nugedolawattha Ranaviru village and ranaviru villages at Watupitiwala, Keeragala and Udupila 
8. Paying cash for prizes to children took part in a concert and an art exhibition of pre-school at Perahettiya Ranaviru village 
9. Being paid money for renovationof play compound at Galnewa Ranaviru village
10. Purchasing dancing items for distribution among Ranaviru villages
11. Purchasing musical instruments for distribution among Ranaviru villages 
12. Purchasing sports items for distribution among Ranaviru villages 
1. Taking necessary action regarding the letters received from Ranaviru  Villages.
2. Taking necessary action regarding the Deyata Kirula National Exhibition.
3. Intervening in solving requests and problems forwarded by the Ranaviru village members  and coordinating with outside institutions where necessary. 
4. Letters referred to the Kekirawa Pradeshiya Sabha for necessary action in connection with on going construction work of pre- school building at Kekirawa Ranaviru Village.
5. Collection of new information of Ranaviru Villages and computerization of it. 
6. Informed the Ranaviru Villages to plan programmes to mark National Tree Planting Day. 
7. Sought a decision from the evaluation committee to make payments for the establishment of public halts.
8.Arrangements were made to purchase library books for use of members of  Ranaviru Villages. 
Making available funds for construction of community halls in Ranaviru Villages. (2011)
Parahettiyagama Ranaviru Village 
Estimated cost
Share of Ranaviru Sewa Authority
Ranaviru Village society has completed all work of community hall. 
The Ranaviru Sewa  Authority has ended funding 
Nugedolawattha Ranaviru Village 
Share of Ranaviru Sewa Authority
Ranaviru Village society has completed all work of community hall. 
The Ranaviru Sewa  Authority has ended funding. 
Wellawaya Ranaviru Village 
Share of Ranaviru Sewa Authority
Ranaviru Village society has completed all work of community hall. 
The Ranaviru Sewa  Authority has ended funding. 
Kekirawa Ranaviru Village 
Share of Ranaviru Sewa Authority
Amount paid
The balance
The balance will be paid once the work is completed. 
Ibbagamuwa Ranaviru Village 
Estimated cost
Money has been paid in three installments for community hall and the final installment will be paid once the work is completed 
Galnewa Ranaviru Village 
The balance will be paid once the work is completed. 
In addition the following activities were also under took in Ranaviru Villages 
1. Purchasing prizes for pre-schools. 
Salawa Ranaviru Village 
2. Supplying loudspeakers. 
Salawa Ranaviru Village 
3. Financial contributions for new year events. 
Watupitiwala Ranaviru Village 
Digana Rajawella Ranaviru Village 
Nugedolawattha Ranaviru Village 
Virusahana Ranaviru Village 
Galnewa Ranaviru Village 
Pelandagoda Ranaviru Village 
Mapalagama Ranaviru Village 
4. Providing money for pirith pinkam. 
Pelendagoda Ranaviru Village 
Lunama Ranaviru Village 
5. Being paid money for renovation of play compound. 
Galnewa Ranaviru Village 
6. Provision of tools and seeds for home gardening. 
Nawagampura Ranaviru Village 
Mapalagama Ranaviru Village 
Walbotale Ranaviru Village 
7. Funding for construction of community halls. 
Galnewa Ranaviru Village 
Wellawaya Ranaviru Village 
III. Culture  
Literature Art Festival 2011- Ranaviru Suwanda Programme
Cost 
01. Compilation of Ranaviru Suwanda Literature Art Festival items and preparation of application and approval for the way it is conduced.  
02. Peperation of paper advertisement calling for applications and publishing it in newspapers (conducted by calling quotations). 
For the preparation of paper advertisement 
Sunday Lankadeepa 
Sunday Silumina 
03. Printed applications were sent to the community, villages, Sewa Vanitha units and welfare services of security forces and Defence Academy for obtaining entries. 
04. Categorizing applications and computerization of them.
05. Arranging selection competitions.  
06. Foods obtained from the Army.
For Food 
07. Selecting judging panels and making them aware.
Payments for judges for competitions other than written competitions and auxiliary artistes  
Fees for written competitions 
08. Making children aware of competitions.  
09. Conducting competitions.
Charges for halls Rs.10400.00 

Sound system 
10. Preperation of results sheets  
11. Drawing cheques for presenting cash prizes
Prize cash 
Total cost
Conclusion 
 
The motive of the Ranaviru Sewa Authority is making the tomorrow of these respectable children a better and secured one.
We consider that the steps taken by the Ranaviru Sewa Authority to make its action plan more result-oriented for accomplishing its aim of meeting needs of war heroes is an achievement in 2011. 
One remarkable feature that was highlighted in 2011 was the implementation of hither to scattered project fields bringing under five principal categories in conformity to the vision of paying gratitude of the nation to the ranaviru name.
We believe that as a result of this action we were able to fulfill the necessities of war heroes more effectively.
The staff of the authority while working with minimum facilities have set an example by extending their services with dedication to achieve goals.
Since we have taken several steps to improve the status of Office building and staff we expect that we would be able to provide more efficient and useful service for the Ranaviru community. 
The Ranaviru Sewa Authority also focuses on improving skills and education of Ranaviru children.
Accordingly actions were initiated to advance the Ranaviru children’s language knowledge particularly English knowledge, cultural programmes were conducted in Ranviru villages with a view to improve aesthetic skills, and streamlined computer courses for them. 

We are pleased to state that we will continue our task of creating a better living condition that care for the dignity of Ranaviru community of the nation who have completed a very difficult but a responsible task with dedication that protected the supreme liberty, sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity of Sri Lanka and have ensured the protection and security of all communities while setting an example to other countries.
P.S. No. 2014/286 - Third Instalment - Part I - Funds - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Agrarian Development Fund - 2012 
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Agrarian Development Fund as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
1.2. Comments of Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Accounting Deficiencies  
1.2.2. Unexplained Differences 
The following observations are made. 
That had not been rectified even by the end of the year under review. 
1.2.3. Accounts Receivable and Payable 
The following observations are made. 
1.2.4. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations, and Management Decisions 
Non-compliances observed are given below. 
Reference to Laws, Rules and Regulations 
Non-compliance 
(a) Public Finance Circular No. PF/423 of 22 December 2006 Paragraph 4 (3) (c) 
A statement of Changes in the Accumulated Fund had not been furnished separately. 
(b) Financial Regulation 371 (5) 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results   
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Management Inefficiencies 
The following observations are made.  
A course of action for the efficient collection of those installments had not been formulated for the recovery. 
This amount in arrears represented 51 percent of the total amount of loans granted. 
(d) The loans granted for trailers of two wheel tractors for 2 districts had been totally in arrears while the recoveries of 15 districts had been at a minimum level of 10 per cent. 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
4.1. Budgetary Control 
The following observations are made.  
(b) Since there was a significant variance between the budgeted and the actual figures, the budget had not been used as an effective management control. 
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Commissioner General from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Recovery of Acreage Tax 
(b) Settlement of Deposit Accounts 
(c) Recovery of Loans 
(d) Utilization of Assets 
(e) Grant of Advances 
P. S. No. 2013/279 - Second Instalment – Part II - State Corporations - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Ayurvedic Medical Council 2012 
1. Financial statements 
Audit Opinion 
1.1. Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 2.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Ayurvedic Medical Council as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
1.2. Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Accounting Deficiencies 
The following accounting deficiencies were observed.  
1.2.2. Lack of Evidence for Audit 
An updated register on information in respect of Ayurvedic practitioners, dispensers, and nurses registered in the Ayurvedic Medical Council as at 31 December 2012 had not been presented for audit. 
Further, information on registered Ayurvedic practitioners published via the internet had not been updated and an updated register had not been prepared according to each district. 
1.2.3. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
Non-compliances with the following laws, rules, regulations and management decisions were revealed. 
(a) Even though in terms of Section 11(1) (e) of Part III of the Ayurvedic Act No. 31 of 1961, 03 members elected out of registered Ayurvedic practitioners should be included in the composition of the Council, no practitioners registered in the Council had been included in it. 
(b) According to the Ayurvedic Medical Council Paper No. 14/13/08 (3) dated 15 July 2005, practitioners should renew their registration once in five years with effect from 01 January 2006. 
Further, despite having decided to charge a registration fee for same, it had not been done even by 31 December 2012. 
In addition, legal obstructions existed in implementing this decision and amendments regarding the said matter had been forwarded to the Department of Legal Draftsman. 
Even though it had been informed that the Medical Council had decided on 03 April 2012 to carry out future activities after approval of revised ethics, the said legal drafts had not been approved up to June 2013. 
02. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results  
2.2. Analytical Financial Review 
Operating activities of the Council during the year under review and the analytical review of financial results as compared with the preceding year are given below. 
Year 2012 
Year 2011 
(Decrease/ Increase) 
Percentage (Decrease/ Increase) 
Income–Government Provision 
Other Operating Income 
Total Income 
Administration Expenditure 
Other Operating Expenditure 
Total Expenditure 
Annual Deficit/ Surplus 
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Performance 
3.1.1. Registration of Practitioners
Practitioners on registration of doctors during the year under review and two preceding years are given below. 
As at 31 December 2012 
As at 31 December 2011
As at 31 December 2010
General/ Physician 
Degree Holders 
Diploma Holders 
Traditional
Traditional Special 
Snake Bite (Sarpavisha) 
Fractures & Dislocation (Kadum Bindum) 
Eye Diseases (Akshi Roga) 
Skin Diseases (Charma Roga) 
Boils & Ulcers (Gedi Vana) 
Hydrophobia (Jalabhithika) 
Burns & Scalds (Davum Pilissum) 
Mental Diseases (Manasika Roga) 
Hos Compresses & Moxibustions (Vidum Pilissum) 
Other
Total 
Number of Traditional-Special Practitioners for Eye Diseases (Akshi Roga), Skin Diseases (Charma Roga), Boils & Ulcers (Gedi Vana), and Burns & Scalds (Davum Pilissum) had increased by a number less than 05 in the year 2012 in relation to the year 2011 and Traditional-Special Practitioners had not been registered under Hydrophobia (Jalabhithika), Hos Compresses & Moxibustions (Vidum Pilissum) and other, after the year 2010. 
Registration of practitioners in each year for the past five years is given below. 
Practitioners 
Degree 
Diploma 
Traditional 
Traditional Special 
Following observations are made in this regard. 
(a) In relation to year 2008, registration of all types of other practitioners except Diploma holders had decreased in the year 2012. 
(b) A decrease of registration of Traditional Special Practitioners had been revealed and it had been 129 in the year 2008, while in the year 2011 it had decreased to 68 and increased to 85 again in the year 2012. 
(c) Registration of Degree Medical Practitioners in the year 2009 had been 190 and it had gradually decreased to 135 by the year 2012. 
3.1.2. Appointing Committees 
Even though the following sub-committees had been appointed continuously from the year 2008 to the year 2012, the intended purpose had not been achieved due to the committee being inactive. 
(a) The Professional Program on the Indigenous Medicine for fractures and dislocations
(b) Committee on Establishing Data Bases Related to Indigenous Traditional Knowledge
(c) Sub-Committee on the conservation of the medical practice for Hos Compresses & Moxibustions which are on the verge of nonexistence 
(d) Revision of the syllabus for the registration of Traditional Medical Practitioners
(e) Sub-Committee for the conservation of Veterinary Medical Practice. 
3.1.3. Action Plan and the progress of the year 2012 
Following activities mentioned in the Annual Action Plan in the year 2012 had not been carried out. 
(a) Enforcement of the legal framework of the Ayurvedic Medical Council, and formulation and implementation of the regulations under the Ayurvedic Act
(b) Improving the process of granting professional accreditation
(c) Categorization of Medical Practitioners based on existing professional qualifications
(d) Identification of the Code of Professional Ethics of the Ayurvedic Medical Practitioners 
(e) Establishing a process of investigating the professional behaviour and conduct of the Ayurvedic Medical Practitioners
(f) Improvement of performance through updating the assets and facilities of the Ayurvedic Medical Council
(g) Take action to minimize irregularities occurring in Ayurvedic Conservation Councils and to build up a direct relationship with the Council
(h) Professional Development Programmes 
(i) Special programmes 
(j) Entering the data in respect of the Ayurvedic Medical Practitioners in the Official Web site
Even though the total number of Medical Practitioners registered by 31 December 2012 was 20,713, the number of names of the Medical Practitioners entered in the Official Web site of the Ayurvedic Medical Council was 3,000. 
This web site has been launched on 27 September 2010. 
3.2. Staff Administration 
Particulars on the staff of the Medical Council as at 31 December 2012 are given below. 
Position 
Approved Cadre 
Actual Cadre 
No. of Vacancies 
Annual Salary 
Registrar 
Management Assistant 
Office Labourers 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
4.1. Internal Audit 
Following observations are made.
(a) An internal audit unit had not been established in the institution. 
(b) Even though the internal audit of the Ayurvedic Medical Council should be carried out by the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine, an internal audit relevant to the year 2012 had not been carried out.
However, an audit had been carried out by the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine only in one instance in the year 2011. 
4.2. Audit Committees 
Audit committees had not been established in the institution and the Medical Council had participated in the Audit and Management Committee conducted by the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine. 
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Chairman of the Council from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Accounting 
(b) Update of the Registration of Ayurvedic Medical Practitioners
P. S. No. 2014/325 - Third Instalment - Part V - Funds - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Excise Reward Fund - 2012 
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Excise Reward Fund as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
1.2. Comments On Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Accounting Deficiencies 
The following observations are made. 
(a) A Main Journal had not been maintained in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for rectification of accounting errors, adjustments and closing entries.
1.2.2. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
The following non-compliances were observed. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations etc., 
Non-compliance 
(a) Section 17of the Tobacco Tax Act, No. 8 of 1999 
Out of the fines collected under the Tobacco Tax Act, 25 percent can be used for the payment of rewards. 
Although a Reward Fund according to a scheme proposed by the Minister and under the control of the Commissioner General of Excise should be established as per the Section 17 (ii) of the Act, such Fund had not been established even by 31 October 2013. 
(b) Financial Regulations 756 
(c) Treasury Circular No. 1A1/2002/02 of 28 November 2002 
A Register of Fixed Assets had not been maintained for computers, computer accessories, and software. 
(d) Management Audit Circular No.  DMA/2009/02 of 01 September 2009 
A Register of Fixed Assets had not been maintained for the assets purchased under the Excise Reward Fund. 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results 
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Performance 
The following observations are made.  
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
4.1. Budgetary Control  
The methodology for the payment of rewards for commendable work, acts of bravery, or acts of special recognition in terms of Section 4.5 of the Excise Notification No. 818 of 04 March 1994 had not been made effective even by 31 October 2013. 
4.2. Corporate Plan‍
A Corporate Plan had not been prepared for the achievement of the Vision and Mission of the Fund. ‍
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Commissioner General of Excise from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Accounting 
(b) Establishment of the Reward Fund under the Tobacco Tax Act 
(c) Assets Control 
P. S. No. 2014/310 - Second Instalment – Part XI - State Corporations - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
National Design Centre - 2012 
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the National Design Centre as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards for Small and Medium Enterprises. 
1.2. Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Unreconciled Control Accounts 
1.2.3. Accounts Receivable and Payable 
The following observations are made.  
1.2.4. Lack of Evidence for Audit 
The evidence indicated against the following items appearing in the financial statements had not been furnished to audit. 
Item 
Value 
Evidence not made available 
Rs. 
(a) Fixed Assets 
(i) Register of Fixed Assets 
(ii) Board of Survey Reports 
(iii) Title Deeds 
(b) Debtors 
Confirmation of Balances 
(c) Creditors 
Confirmation of Balances 
1.2.5. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
The non-compliances observed during the course of audit are given below. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations, etc. 
Non-compliance 
(a) Treasury Circular No. 1A1/2002/02 of 28 November 2002 
A Register for Computers, Computer Accessories, and Software had not been maintained. 
(b) Public Enterprises Circular No. PED/12 of 02 June 2003 Section 6.5.1 
Even though the financial statements and the draft Annual Report for the year under review should have been presented to the Auditor General within 60 days after the close of the financial year, only the financial statements had been presented on 26 April 2013. 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results 
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Performance 
The following observations are made. 
(a) The number of designs and inventions produced by the Moratuwa and Nattarampotha Project by 31 December of the year under review had been 672 and out of that 381 had been handed over to the Workshop. 
The inventions handed over included 205 inventions needed for the craftsmen and 86 graphic designs. 
The number of new designs and inventions of the preceding year had been 679 and number of design samples had been 321, and as compared with that the new designs and the inventions of the year under review had decreased by 1 percent. 
An adequate course of action had been launched with the National Crafts Council to bring all these designs for use by the craftsmen. 
There were 10 designers with the Centre and a target of a minimum number of 05 designs per month had been set for each designer.
‍However, three designers had failed to reach that target.
Furthermore, a methodology to follow up on the number of designs popularised among the craftsmen and the number of designs which had been favoured by the craftsmen had not been identified. 
As such how effective the new designs produced had been, was problematic.
(b) Out of the programmes targeted in terms of the Annual Action Plan, 03 programmes had not been executed while the progress of the two remained programmes had been 20 percent and 40 percent. 
Details appear below. 
Activities 
Expected Target for the year 2012 
Targets Achieved as at 31 December 2012 
Percentage of Achievement 
Recurrent Activities 
Training of Trainers
Number of New Design Training Programmes
Number of Participants 
Providing Training and Technology for Development of Designs 
Diploma in Higher National Designs 
Intermediate Diploma in National Designs 
Providing Marketing Facilities for New Designs 
Number of Handicrafts Products Prepared for Exhibition 
Number of Handicrafts Craftsmen Participated 
Number of General Public Participated
Number of Meetings of Buyers and Sellers 
Number of Beneficiaries 
Number of Display Centres Based on Tourists 
Supply of Designs Market Facilities 
(c) The training programmes targeted for holding under 09 sections within the period according to the Action Plan for the year 2012 had not been held as planned. 
3.2. Management Inefficiencies 
New Showroom - Battaramulla 
Even though popularisation of new designs through the new showroom of the Centre had been the main objective according to the Action Plan, the said objective could not be achieved as the showroom had been closed down in the year under review. 
(a) The new showroom commenced in the year 2011 had been closed down since August 2012. 
3.3. Idle and Underutilised Assets 
The following observations are made.  
However, that remained idle over a period of 03 years.  
Even though a period of 03 years had elapsed after the break down of about 20 feet of the side wall constructed near the sports ground and the car park, that had not been repaired.  
(e) The officer in charge of the laboratory of the Nattarampotha Branch had proceeded abroad at the beginning of the year 2010 and that officer had not taken action to handover the inventory goods.  
3.4. Staff Administration 
The particulars of the staff of the Centre for the year 2012 are given below. 
Category of Employees 
Approved 
Actual 
Vacancies 
Executive level 
Middle level 
Secondary level 
Primary level 
Actions had not been taken to fill 09 vacancies in the middle level and 15 vacancies in the secondary level. 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
4.1. Action Plan 
Even though the Centre had prepared an Action Plan for the year under review, it had failed to achieve the expected objectives.
Certain training programmes had not executed at all. 
4.2. Procurement Plan 
Even though the Centre had prepared and presented a Procurement Plan for the year 2012, that had not been prepared based on the Action Plan of the Centre in terms of the National Budget Circular. 
4.3. Budgetary Control 
Significant variances were observed between the budgeted and the actual income and expenditure, thus indicating that the budget had not been made use of as an effective instrument of management control. 
4.4. Internal Audit 
Even though Internal Audit Programmes had been prepared for the year 2012, the internal audit had not been done according to the programmes. 
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and control observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Chairman of the Centre from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Accounting 
(b) Balances Receivable and Payable 
(c) Assets Control 
(d) Budgetary Control 
(e) Conduct of Training Programmes 
Ceylon Ceramics Corporation - 2012 
1. Financial statements 
1.1. Adverse Audit Opinion 
In my opinion, because of the significance of the matters described in paragraph 1.2  of this report, the financial statements do not give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Ceylon Ceramics Corporation as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
1.2 Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1 Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
The financial statements for the year under review had not been prepared based on the new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards effective from 01 January 2012. 
1.2.2 Accounting Deficiencies 
The following observations are made. 
However, it had not been brought to account. 
However, it had not been brought to account. 
The value of 13 motor vehicles currently in use by the Corporation had not been included in the Register of Fixed Assets as well as the financial statements. 
1.2.4 Accounts Receivable and Payable 
The following observations are made. 
(c) Bangadeniya Factory 
(i) The above factory had been closed down over 10 years ago. 
1.2.6 Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions
The following instances of non-compliance were observed during the course of audit. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations, etc.
Value 
Details 
(a) Section 8.3 of the Public Enterprises Circulars No. PED/12 of 02 June 2003
(b) Nation Building Tax Act  No. 9 of 2009
(c) Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002
(d) Economic Service Charges Act No. 13 of 2006 
(e) National Defence Levy Act No. 36 of 1995 
(f) Goods and Services Tax Act No. 34 of 1996 
(g) Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 
(h) Western Provincial Finance Statute No. 6 of 1990  
2. Financial Review 
2.1 Financial Results 
2.2 Analytical Financial Review 
The following observations are made.   
The retirement of 497 employees in the year under review and the production done on the piece rate basis had affected the decrease of the cost of sales and the total expenditure by 50 per cent and 41 per cent respectively. 
(b) Even though the Corporation incurred losses continuously up to the year 2011, it was observed that the Corporation earned profits in the year 2012 due to the reforms undertaken. 
Year 
Profit/ (Loss)                
(Rs. Millions) 
2.3 Analysis of Financial Ratios 
Current Ratio 
The Standard Current Ratio of safe institution should be 2.1. 
Loan Ratio 
The Standard Total Assets to External Loan Ratio of a business institution should be 1.1.  
As a High Gearing Ratio is indicated, the possibility of that affecting the going concern of the Corporation cannot be ruled out. 
Debtors Turnover Ratio
The debt recovery period had increased from 91 days to 255 days.  
Number of Days of Debtors Turnover 
255 Days 
91 Days    
Stock Turnover Ratio 
Time taken for converting the manufactured stocks to sales had increased from 77 days to 90 days. 
Number of days of Stock Turnover 
90 Days 
77 Days 
3. Operating Review 
3.1 Performance  
The following observations are made. 
(a) Seven Tile factories maintaining the production work of the Corporation exist and out of that 05 Factories had incurred losses in the year under review.  
The profitability of those in the 05 preceding years had been as follows. 
Tile Factory 
Profit/ (Loss) for the year 2012
Weuda 
Elayapattuwa 
Bingiriya 
Mahiyangana  
Yatiyana 
Uswewa 
Eragama 
(b) The estimated production of tiles, bricks and other material by the 05 operating factories in the year under review had been 9,573,366. 
The actual production units had been 3,112,050  or 33 per cent of the estimated production.  
Details appear below. 
Factory 
Estimated Production Units 
Actual Units Manufactured 
Deficit Units 
Eragama 
Bingiriya 
Mahiyangaaya 
Uswewa 
Yatiyana 
Total
3.2 Management Inefficiencies 
Ten cases had been filed in the Labour Tribunals and several other Courts relating to the respective factories  by the retired employees of the Corporation against the Corporation in connection with the non-extension of their services and the arrears of gratuity.  
Those had not been disclosed in the accounts. 
3.3 Identified Losses 
The following observations are made.  
That had not been paid even up to 30 September 2013.  
3.4 Existence of the Corporation 
In view of the following factors it was observed that the existence of the Corporation is uncertain. 
(b) The total assets to the total liabilities ratio of the Corporation for the year under review and the preceding year were 1.3. 
(c) During the year under review, 497 employees out of a total of 540 employees of the Corporation were voluntarily compensated and retired.
(d) Out of the 09 factories owned by the Corporation, only 07 factories are in production at present and the balance 02 factories had been closed down due to the following reasons. 
Factory 
Year of Closing Down 
Reasons for Closing Down 
Oddusuddan  
War situation 
Bangadeniya 
Scarcity of Raw Material 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
4.1. Corporate Plan 
A Corporate Plan for the Corporation had not been prepared. 
4.2. Action Plan 
The Corporation had not prepared an Action Plan for the year under review. 
4.3 Audit Committees 
According to paragraph 2 of the Treasury Circular No. PF/PS/04(XII) of 28 August 2006, if Audit Committee of the Corporation is not in operation, such Committee should be established and ensure that the Committee meets regularly and take follow up action on the recommendation of the Committee. 
Nevertheless, the management of the Corporation had not paid attention to the appointment of the Committee even up to the end of the year under review. 
4.4 Procurement Plan 
The Corporation had not prepared a Procurement Plan for the year under review. 
4.5 Budgetary Control 
A budget for the year under review had not been prepared.  
As such, the attention of the Corporation had not been paid to making use of a budget as an instrument of management control. 
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Chairman from time to time.  
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Accounting 
(b) Utilization of Assets 
(c) Debtors and Creditors Control 
(d) Staff Management 
(e) Achievement of Production Targets 
P. S. No. 2014/286 - Third Instalment - Part I - Funds - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Construction Guarantee Fund
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Construction Guarantee Fund as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
1.2. Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Accounting Deficiencies 
The following observations are made. 
(a) A sum of paid to construction service providers during the year under review as encashment of security bonds had been written off against the profit for the year under review instead of being debited to the debtors account in order to recover it from the contractors. 
The Chairman had informed that initial action had been taken at present to discuss with the institution relating to the security bonds concerned and to take appropriate subjects for arbitration.
(b) Salaries, wages and other allowances totaling paid based on external services had been classified as research and development expenditure instead of being classified as personnel emoluments. 
1.2.2. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations
The following non-compliances were observed in audit. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations etc. 
Non-compliance 
Paragraph 2.2.1 (a) of the Public Enterprises Circular No. PED 12 dated 02 June 2003
Annual Accounts for the years from 2000 to 2011 had not been tabled in Parliament. 
Public Enterprises Circular No. PED 38 dated 14 July 2006
It had not been registered at the Department of Inland Revenue relating to Value Added Tax whereas tax had not been recovered from the officers and remitted under Pay As You Earn Tax. 
Public Enterprises Circular No. PED 39 dated 09 October 2006. 
Action had been taken to assign a vehicle to a Consultant which was obtained on the basis of monthly hire of. 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results 
The reasons mainly attributed for the increase of the financial results are given below. 
Item of Income/ Expenditure 
Favourable/ (Adverse) Effect 
Rs. 
Increase of income from Surety Bonds
Increase of income from the Treasury Bills 
Increase of income from Fixed Deposits 
Increase of income from Loan Interest 
Decrease in write off of Income from Loan Interest 
Decrease in Over Provision for Doubtful Loans 
Decrease in miscellaneous Income 
Increase in Salaries and Wages 
Increase in other Expenditure 
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Transactions of Contentious Nature 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Even though preparation of financial statements is a normal duty of the Financial Controller, an additional charges amounting to had been paid to the former Financial Controller for preparing financial statements for the year under review. 
(b) A sum of had been paid to the Institute of Construction, Training and Development during the year under review in respect of office rent, Value Added Tax and electricity charges for the years 2013 and 2014 without entering into a formal rent agreement.  
However, action had not been taken to obtain the additional space up to the end of the month of April 2013. 
(c) A sum of had been paid to an outside individual, who had been selected without following proper procurement procedure, for preparing Corporate Plan for the period 2012 - 2016. 
It was not confirmed that action had been taken to review properly and implement this Corporate Plan or to evaluate the performance. 
However, action had not been taken up to the date of this report to obtain the final report including the above criteria and publish it. 
Further, fruitfulness of this expenditure had not been confirmed. 
A official receipt had not been obtained for the charges paid to the tourist hotel whereas bills had not been submitted in respect of actual expenditure spent for transport and incidental expenditure. 
Even though the entire had been accounted for as expenditure, information relating to the actual amount spent for the workshop, number of persons participated, and fruitfulness of the workshop had not been submitted for audit. 
(f) The total hire charges paid during the year 2012 for a motor vehicle obtained on the basis of paying monthly hire charges without following proper procurement procedure amounted. 
Further, details of monthly running charts relating to utilization of vehicles had not been prepared showing the distance travelled along with the milometer and utilization of fuel. 
Accordingly, it was unable to assure the fruitfulness of the utilization of vehicles. 
3.2. Personnel Administration 
Cost of personnel for the year under review is given below. 
The following observations are made relating to this cost of personnel.
Contract 
External Service 
Total 
Number of employees 
Basic salary 
Provident Fund 
Cost of Living Allowance 
Incentive 
Total Cost 
Cost per person 
(a) Even though all the public enterprises should restructure their organization structures in accordance with the Management Services Circular No. 30 dated 2006 September 22 and in terms of Letter No. PEDPU dated 08 July 2009 of the Department of Public Enterprises and action should have been taken to revise recruitment/ promotion procedure, cadre and salary scales and to obtain the recommendation of the National Salaries and Cadre Commission and approval of the Department of Management Services, action had not been taken accordingly.
The Chairman had informed that the Attorney General had given advice stating that it was not necessary to implement the circular relating to staff and the Board of Trustees had taken action according to their discretion under Item 4 of the Deed of Trust. 
(b) Extension of service period of the staff recruited on contract basis had not been done according to the proper procedure. 
(c) Salaries had been paid to the staff recruited on the basis of external services without assessing the performance. 
4. Deficiencies in Systems and Controls 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Applications for security bonds had not been documented and the applications which were rejected had not been filed by pointing out the reasons for such rejections. 
Therefore, reasons for rejection of applications which were rejected had not been subjected to evaluation according to the proper internal control procedure.
(b) Internal control procedure had not been followed so as to review or carry out technical audit whether action had been taken with proper responsibilities and transparency by the officers who were received and supervised the security bonds for which the service providers applied requesting payments on the basis of unsuccessful contracts. 
The Chairman informed that the failure of contracts so far while granting security bond by the Institution had been limited up to 0.14 per cent even though the minimum percentage of internationally accepted tendency for failure of contracts was from 0.8 per cent to 1 per cent.
(c) The control of petty cash imprest had not been formalized due to the following matters.
(i) Action had not been taken to maintain a register of petty cash imprest or to carry out adequate supervision for the year under review.
(ii) Out of the petty cash imprest amounting to retained during the year under review, a balance exceeding had been retained continuously as cash in hand.
(iii) Even though there were unusual delays in settlement of advances, supervision had not been carried out in this regard. 
P. S. No. 2014/311 Third Instalment - Part III - Funds - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Customs Officers Reward Fund - 2012 
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effect of the matter described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Customs Officers Reward Fund as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
1.2. Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Lack of Evidence for Audit 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results  
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Performance 
A 50 per cent portion of the Government tax revenue, penalties imposed, confiscated money, and proceeds of the sale of confiscated goods, etc. imposed on illegal actions such as the Customs tax frauds, illegal imports, breach of regulations on import control detected by the Customs Officers are credited to this Fund for the payment of rewards of the officers and the informants. 
According to the information furnished, the particulars of income, expenditure, and the net operating results for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the 6 preceding years are given below. 
Year
Income
Expenditure
Total Expenditure Surplus/ (Deficit) 
Payments to Officers 
Payments to Informants 
Withholding Tax/ Department of Inland Revenue 
Others 
The following observations are made.
The money not collected by the officers from the lists of rewards issued by the Department from time to time is credited to this account. 
When those officers make subsequent claims for the money, such payments are debited to this account. 
Nevertheless, it was observed that proper steps had not been taken on the unsettled amounts remaining over long periods relating to the re-deposited rewards. 
3.2. Transactions of Contentious Nature 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Sri Lanka Customs had not taken the instructors of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenues into consideration in deducting the Pay As You Earn Tax on the rewards paid to the officers. 
Actions had been taken by considering the rewards paid as one off payment, but in the cases of payment in several instances, those had not been accumulated and the final amount of tax that should be charged had not been computed. 
A large amount of tax revenue receivable by the Government had been deprived of to the Government due to the separate computation of the Pay As You Earn Tax and recovering only the relevant amount of that payment in the case of payment of rewards in several instances.
The unavailability of a proper procedure for the accurate computation of the tax to the Government from the Customs officers receiving a number of allowances is a contentious matter.  
(b) In terms of the section 153(2) of the Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1988, regulations have been made in such manner to enable the allocation of 50 per cent of the balance of fines income for the Reward Fund once all expenses are deducted and to distribute them to officers and informants as gifts. 
Accordingly, though the overtime paid from the Fund to all officers who conducted the investigation should be deducted from the fines income, it had not been so done and brought to account as an expenditure of the Customs Overtime Fund. 
As records of the overtime cost on the investigations had not been separately maintained, the overtime cost incurred on investigations could not be computed. 
(c) According to the prevailing Customs Rewards Scheme, the payment of rewards to the officers is not made only from the fines imposed on the parties involved in Customs Duty frauds, but also from 50 per cent of the tax receivable by the Government from those parties. 
Therefore, the responsible parties have not paid their attention to the contribution for the protection of the public Revenue. 
(d) It has been pointed out from time to time in the audit that there have been numerous instances where Customs officers have been rewarded with tax revenues and penalties levied from various parties without special customs investigation. 
Therefore, such heavy expenditure incurred by the Fuel Fund for the Departmental fuel expenditure under such circumstances is a contentious matter in the audit. 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
4.1. Budgetary Control 
Significant variances were observed between the budgeted and the actual income and expenditure for the year under review, thus indicating that the budget had not been made use of as an effective instrument of control. 
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies observed during the course of the audit were brought to the notice of the Director General of Customs from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Accounting 
(b) Distribution of Rewards and Expenditure Control 
P. S. No. 2014/317 Third Instalment - Part IV - Funds - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Customs Overtime and Cargo Examination Fees Fund - 2012 
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Customs Overtime and Cargo Examination Fees Fund as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
1.2. Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1.  Presentation of Financial Statements 
1.2.2. Unidentified Transactions  
This had been continuously pointed out in the audit reports for the years 2008 to 2011. 
Though the Director General of Customs stated that action will be taken to rectify that in the subsequent year, no action had been taken even during the year 2012 to settle the matter. 
1.2.3. Accounts Receivable 
The following observations are made. 
Adequate provisions for bad debts had not been made for those balances that were uncertain to recover. 
A formal course of action had not been taken even during the year under review for the recovery of the money from the debtors existing for more than 07 years.  
Similarly, action had not been taken to ascertain the existence of certain institution shown as debtors.   
Attention had not been paid to the possibility of identifying and settling those balances. 
(c) Security deposits had not been obtained in connection with certain debtors' balances. 
1.2.4. Special Deposits and Investments 
The following observations are made in this connection. 
(a) The documentary information in support of the purpose of obtaining the deposits had not been furnished to audit. 
(b) Action had not been taken to find out whether the depository institutions are in existence and those deposits had not been confirmed as refundable deposits. 
(c) As this money had been invested in saving accounts over a long period, a very low interest had been earned and attention had not been paid to deploy the money in other suitable investments. 
1.2.5. Lack of Evidence for Audit 
Evidence indicated against the following items had not been furnished to audit. 
Item 
Amount 
Rs.  
Evidence not made available 
Sundry Debtors 
Confirmation of Balances relating to outstanding debts of 158 institutions
Eight Items of Accounts 
Confirmation of Balances 
1.2.6. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
The following non-compliances were observed. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decision
Non-compliance 
(a) Financial Regulations 
Financial Regulation 175(2) 
Action for recovery of arrears amounting to as at 31 December 2012 had not been taken. 
(b) Public Administration Circular No. 9/2009 of 16 April 2009 and the Sri Lanka Customs Circular No. 01/2010 of 19 February 2010
Even though the punch card machines had been introduced by Sri Lanka Customs, none of the officers of Sri Lanka Customs had used the punch card machine during the year under review and no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection. 
1.2.7. Transactions not Supported by Authority 
Internal regulations had been made for enabling the Customs Officers to claim overtime exceeding 600 hours per month at 12 to 27 hours per day and the formal approval obtained for that had not been furnished to audit. 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results 
This deterioration had been mainly due to the decrease of the income of the Fund by 2.7 per cent and the increase of the expenditure by 2.4 per cent as compared with the preceding year. 
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Performance 
(a) Overtime Fund 
The money collected as overtime from the external clearance centres and the other institutions to defray the expenditure incurred in the performance of duties during the time in addition to the normal duty times of the Customs Officers and for the performance of duties on the dates in which the Customs is closed for duties is credited to this Fund and the payments made to the customs staff for such overtime service performed are considered as the expenditure of the Fund. 
An analysis of the financial results of the Overtime Fund for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the 09 preceding years is given below. 
Year 
Income
3.2. Transactions of Contentious Nature 
The following observations are made. 
(a) The contentious nature of the overtime payment process of Sri Lanka Customs was continuously pointed out in the previous years' audit reports and overtime had been paid in an unrealistic manner even during the year under review. 
A sample audit check relating to 06 officers of the Export Division for the three months from January to March 2012 revealed that each officer had been on overtime duty in the ranges of 600 hours to 663 hours in each of the three months.  
Further, the average overtime duty of these officers per day per officer had exceeded 20 hours.  
(b) Those officers had been paid cargo examination fees in an unusual manner in respect of the period for which the above overtime had been paid.  
(c) Even though requests were made to produce the documents to audit in support of the payment of cargo examination fees relating to the Bonds and Baggage Division during February to April 2012, such information was not produced even up to October 2013. 
Though it was reported that the information relating to the Exports Division for the years 2008 and 2009 had been deleted, such information for the year 2010 and 2011 had not been also produced to audit. 
(d) The above overtime and cargo examination fees had been paid in addition to the monthly salaries, incentives, and rewards paid to the officers. 
The overtime earnings of most officers had exceeded their consolidated salaries. 
These payments made to the officers on the basis on being on duty throughout the year without obtaining leave is an unrealistic situation. 
(e) Even though the outdated regulations on overtime and external examination fees should be amended to rectify the above situation no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection. 
3.3. Management Inefficiencies 
The following observation is made. 
The unutilized money of the Fund had been brought forward from year to year as Treasury deposits.
The balances of the Deposit Account and the balance of the Fund indicated improvement as shown below. 
It was observed that necessary steps had not been taken by discussing the matter with the Treasury. 
Overtime Fund 
Cargo Examination Fees Fund 
Balance of the Treasury Deposit 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
Budgetary Control 
Material variances were observed between the income and expenditure according to the budget and the actual income and expenditure, thus indicating that the budget had not been made use of as an effective instrument of management control. 
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Director General of Customs from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Arrears of Income 
(b) Overtime Payments 
(c) Accounting 
(d) Container Examinations 
(e) Staff Administration 
P. S. No. 2014/324 - Second Instalment – Part XV - State Corporations - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Defence Services Command and Staff College - 2012
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Defence Services Command and Staff College as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Public Sector Accounting Standards. 
1.2. Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Accounting Deficiencies 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Inclusion of Motor Vehicles not belonging to the College in the Financial Statements 
(b) Deposit Account 
The retention money payable to the contractors and the deductions made from the staff for no-pay leave had been credited to the Deposit Account under non-current liabilities. 
As a sum of deducted in connection with no-pay leave from February 2010 in January 2012 had been credited to the Deposit Account referred to above, the non-current liabilities had been overstated by that amount. 
1.2.2. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
Instances of non-compliance with laws, rules, regulations and management decisions observed during the course of audit are given below. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations, etc. 
Non-compliance 
(a) Section 8(1) of the Finance Act No. 38 of 1971 
Even though the budget for every financial year should be prepared and approved by the Governing Body not later than three months prior to the beginning of the relevant financial year, the budget for the year 2012 had been approved on 27 February 2013. 
(b) Section 5.2.1 of the Public Enterprises Circular No. PED/12 of 02 June 2003
The budgeted balance sheet, the budgeted income and expenditure statement, and the budgeted cash flow statement had not been included in the budget prepared for the year under review. 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results 
According to the financial statements presented, the financial results generated from the operations for the year under review amounted to a deficit of as compared with the corresponding deficit of for the preceding year, thus indicating a deterioration of in the financial results. 
2.2. Analytical Financial Review 
The increase in certain items of expenditure as compared with the preceding year by a sum of had been the main reason for the deterioration of in the financial results. 
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Performance 
The number of students who participated in the degree courses conducted by the Staff College in the year under review had been 102 as compared with the participation of 83 students in the preceding year. 
According to the comprehensive income statement, the total expenditure for the year under review amounted to and as such the cost per graduate amounted to Management Inefficiencies 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Inspection of warehouse items
(i) The accuracy of the balance of stocks shown in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 could not be established as the stock books had not been maintained externally from the stores. 
(ii) Separate Inventory Registers had not been maintained for recording the particulars on assets used by each Division of the College. 
3.3. Operating Inefficiencies 
The following observations are made.
million due to cost escalations and delays. 
Due to the delay in the construction works, it had not been possible to expand the courses expected for commencement in the year 2013. 
3.4. Underutilisation of Funds 
As the capital grants provided annually by the General Treasury was not utilized by the college, it was continuously credited again to the Treasury at the end of the year.
3.5. Utilization of Motor Vehicles 
The Ministry of Defence and the Sri Lanka Army had made available 17 and 14 motor vehicles respectively to the College and the ownership of the motor vehicles had not been transferred to the College. 
A three wheeler motor vehicles condemned had been left parked since 17 December 2011. 
Even though all the motor vehicles used by the College should be controlled by one Division, it had been decentralized in the way of that the motor vehicles of Sri Lanka Army and the Ministry of Defence were being controlled by the Transport Division and the 04 motor vehicles supplied by Sri Lanka Air force and 02 motor vehicles supplied by Sri Lanka Navy were being controlled by their respective Wings. 
3.6. Staff Management 
Even though the approved staff of the college had been 100, only a staff of 92 had been deployed. 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
4.1. Annual Action Plan 
An Action Plan for the identification of the financial targets and the physical targets according to the respective periods had not been prepared. 
The Performance Reports had not been prepared in a manner to facilitate comparison with the Action Plan. 
4.2. Budgetary Control 
It was observed that the budget had not been used as an effective instrument of management control because of a significant variance between the estimated provision and actual expenditure.
4.3. Tabling of Annual Reports in the Parliament
In terms of Section 6.5.3 of the Public Enterprises Circular No. PED/12 of 02 June 2003, the Annual Report on the activities of the Defence Services Command and Staff College and the accounts should be tabled in Parliament within 150 days after the closure of the financial year. 
Nevertheless, the Annual Reports for the years 2010 and 2011 had not been tabled in Parliament even by 09 November 2013. 
5. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in Systems and Controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Chairman of the Defence Services Command and Staff College from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Utilization of Capital Provision 
(b) Staff Control 
(c) Construction Works 
(d) Stores Control 
P. S. No. 2014/321 - Second Instalment – Part XII - State Corporations - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
General Sir John Kotalawala Defence University - 2012 
1. Financial Statements 
1.1 Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the General Sir John Kotalawala Defence University as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
1.2 Commenting on Financial Statements 
1.2.1 Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
The following observations are made. 
Actions in terms of Sri Lanka Accounting Standard No. 16 had not been taken to revalue and account for those assets. 
1.2.2 Accounting Deficiencies 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Understatements and Overstatements 
The Vice-Chancellor informed the audit that Sri Lanka Army had agreed for the write off of this amount. 
(b) Inappropriate Disclosures 
1.2.3 Lack of Evidence for Audit 
The value of the following constructions shown under the “work-in-progress’ from the year 2011 remained unchanged even by 31 December 2012. 
Account Balance 
Balance as at 31 December 2011 and as at 31 December 2012 
Rs. 
Buildings - 6,388,934 
Official Quarters of Married Officers - 230,870 
Construction of Quarters of Married Officers - 5,033,574 
The evidence required for the identification of these amounts had not been furnished to audit. 
1.2.4 Non-compliances with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
The following non-compliances were observed during the course of the audit. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
Non-compliance 
Procurement Guidelines 2006 
(i) Guidelines 2.14.1, 3.4.1 and 4.3 
It was observed that those advances had ranged between 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the value of each purchase. 
(iii) Guideline 8.9.1
2. Financial Review 
2.1 Financial Results 
The improvement of the financial results for the year under review as compared with the preceding year was observed as due to the increase of income in the year under review. 
2.2 Legal Actions initiated against or by the Institution 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Three external parties had filed three cases in Courts against the University by claiming ownership to the properties of the University. 
3. Operating Review 
3.1 Performance 
Actions had not been taken in the year under review for the execution of the following activities included under the infrastructure development in the Corporate Plan for execution in the year 2012. 
(a) Construction of a separate building complex for the Postgraduate Academic Division
(b) Construction of a six storeyed laboratory for the Faculty of Engineering
3.2 Operating Inefficiencies 
Advances for purchases amounting to 100 per cent had been granted surpassing the circular provisions in the procurement of goods and services to ensure obtaining goods and services quickly and efficiently. 
Instances of non-supply of goods for the advances granted in the year 2011 even by September 2013 were observed. 
Actions had not been taken for the recovery of such money while advances had been further granted to those suppliers.  
3.3 Transactions of Contentious Nature  
3.4 Deficiencies in Contract Administration 
The following observations are made. 
(a) The following items installed in the Building No. 3 of the Building of the Faculty of Medicine had been rusted before the expiry of one year since the use of the building. 
(ii) Sanitary Equipment 04 
(b) Even though the handrail of the stairway and the exterior security fences of the above building had been constructed with iron and painted with galvanizing, those had rusted by the time of inspection. 
4. Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of the audit were brought to the notice of the Vice-Chancellor of the University from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Accounting 
(b) Budgetary Control 
(c) Advances Control 
(d) Assets Control 
(e) Construction Control 
The Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs was established on 1st of January 1986, to preserve, promote and propagate, Hindu Religion and Hindu Culture of Sri Lanka.
At present, this Department functions under the Ministry of Resettlement, Reconstruction and Hindu Religious Affairs.
I take this opportunity to add a few words to the Performance Report and Annual Accounts for 2014 of the Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs.
I am proud to state that we were able to achieve the significant role expected from our department according to the government policies during 2014 in an efficient and productive manner.
The efficiency of performance of the department has been increased due to the hard work and dedication of all the staff members including newly recruited development officers.
I hereby wish to express my deepest gratitude and sincere thanks to all Hon. Ministers, Hon. Members of Parliament, Hon. Members of Provincial Council, and all Government Intuitions and other stakeholders including Hindu religious monks, priests, scholars, institutions, temple trustees and Aranery Schools for extending their fullest support and cooperation to the activities of our department.
In fact I am well fortunate to receive the fullest cooperation from the Secretary and the staff of the Ministry of Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs in our efforts to perform the responsibilities of the Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs very successfully.
Hence I wish to extend my thankfulness to the Secretary and all staff members of the Ministry of Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs for their great support.
I, whilst appreciating the services of all management staff and members of the staff of our department who had extended their cooperation for providing admirable contribution for our efforts to achieve the targets in 2014, No doubt they deserve my gratitude.
Director
Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs
Introduction
The Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs was established on 1st of January 1986 to preserve, promote and propagate Hindu Religion and Hindu Culture.
Vision
Preservation, Promotion and Propagation of Hindu Religion and Culture.
Mission
Preservation, Promotion and Propagation of Hindu Religion, Hindu Religious Education, Hindu Culture and Arts and Renovation of Hindu Temples.
Objectives
Promoting Hindu Religious education to practice moral characters and Religious values among Hindu youths
Preserving Hindu Religious practices for sustaining and developing Hindu Religion and Culture. 
Promoting Research on Hindu Religion and Culture.
Sensitizing the public about the noble character of Hindu Culture and magnificence of Hindu Art and Architecture.
Key Functions
Rehabilitation of Hindu Temples
Providing Training for Hindu Priest
Observing Guru Poojas of Hindu Saints, conducting Hindu Lectures and preserving the traditions by conducting Hindu Festivals.
Promoting Hindu Religious education and encouraging to preserve moral values in Aranery Schools 
Compilation of Hindu Encyclopedia
Administration of Hindu Research Library 
Conducting Research on Hindu Religion and Tami Culture 
Preserving Hindu Religious Tamil Culture
Administration of Hindu Pilgrim’s Rest House in Kataragama 
Administration of Hindu Culture Centre, Batticaloa 
Administration of Anaipanthi Gurukula Building, Jaffna 
Administration of Navalar Mani Mandapam, Jaffna 
Preserving Hindu Culture and Arts
Implementation of Provisions of the Hindu Cultural Fund Act
Programmes and Performance Report 
from 01.01.2014 to 31.12.2014
Introduction
The following Projects are being implemented by the Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs in keeping line with the Government Policy towards the creation of a Virtuous Society.
Programmes
Development of Hindu Aranery Schools 
Promotion of Hindu Religious Activities 
Research on Hindu Religion and Culture 
Promotion of Hindu Culture and Arts 
Development of Hindu Temples and Organizations
The following projects were implemented by the Department up to 31st December 2014.
Development of Hindu Aranery Schools
The Hindu Aranery Schools are functioning with the objectives of to impress the values of moral character and making them to have faith in the almighty, prayers and worshipping at temples and preaching them Hinduism. 
Several projects have been designed to develop the Aranery Schools and implemented by the Department. 
The main activities are; conducting seminars for teachers, supplying books to the Aranery Schools, supplying uniform materials to the students, and providing financial assistance to fulfill the basic requirement of furniture to the Aranery Schools.
Seminars and Workshops for Aranery School Teachers
The seminars and workshops are being conducted in the districts to regularize the teaching method of Aranery School Teachers, explain the concept of the syllabus and conduct practicals for the students.
Up to 31st December 2014 in the Department
No. of Registered Aranery schools	- 1,887
No. of Aranery School Students - 285,067
No. of Aranery School Teachers- 9,407
07 Dharmachariyar Residential Seminars have been conducted.
Colombo, 
Gampaha, 
Galle, 
Kegalle, 
Matale,
Kaluthara,
Puttalam,
Kurunagala,
Kandy,
Ratnapura,
Nuwara Eliya,
Matara,
Badulla,
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee,
Ampara,
Polonnaruwa,
Jaffna,
Kilinochchi,
Mullaitivu,
Mannar,
Vaviniya.
707 Hindu Dharnachariyars have been benefitted
03 Seminars on Residential Teaching Method have been conducted for Aranery Teachers.	
Trincomalee,	
Batticaloa,	
Ampara, 
Polonnaruwa,
Jaffana
682 Hindu Aranery Teachers have been benefitted.
13 seminars for final exam for Aranery Teachers have been conducted.	
Kaluthara,
Ratnapura,
Badulla,
Colombo,
Gampaha,
Kilinochchi,
Mullaitivu,
Galle,
Mannar,
Batticaloa,
Puttalam,
Ampara,
Jaffna,
Kandy
1196 Hindu Aranery Teachers participated and benefitted
Dharmasariyar Residential Seminar, Colombo
Dharmasariyar Residential Seminar, Batticaloa
General Knowledge Competitive Examination for Aranery School Students.
Certificates and cash are awarded for the students who got the highest marks in National level and District level. 
A General Knowledge Competitive Examination was conducted on 28th June 2014 in 160 exam centers Island wide for the students of Aranery School and around 69,783 students sat for this examination.
Prize Giving Ceremony for the students who passed the examination was held on 18th October 2014 at New Kathiresan Hall, Bambalapity.
Special magazine on Hindu Religious General Knowledge examination prize giving has also been published.
1000 Students of Aranery Schools, their parents and the teachers of Aranery Schools participated for in this ceremony. 
Allowance for Aranery School Teachers for Library Books 
3250 Teachers from 773 Aranery Schools in 22 Districts namely Jaffna, Batticaloa, Kandy, Nuwara Eliya, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, Ampara, Kegalle, Matale, Badulla, Puttalam, Trincomalee, Ratnapura, Kaluthara, Polonnaruwa, Colombo, Kurunagala, Galle, Matara, Gampaha, Mannar and Vavuniya have been paid the allowance this year. 
Purchasing of Musical Instrument 
81 Suruthy Boxes and 80 Thalams were purchased this year.
These were provided to 79 Aranery Schools in Districts Jaffna, Batticaloa, Nuwara Eliya, Kilinochchi, Ratnapura, Kaluthara and Galle. 
Purchasing of Uniform Materials for Aranery School Students 
Uniform materials are provided to Aranery School Students annually with free of charge by this Department.
Accordingly, 65,050 meters uniform materials have been purchased in 3 stages and provided to 22, 857 Aranery School Students including 10,968 male students and 11, 889 female students of 13 Districts of Kandy, Matale, Nuwara Eliya, Batticaloa, Kaluthara, Jaffna, Mannar, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu,Badulla, Colombo, Galle and Ratnapura. 
Pannisai Classes
Pannisai classes are conducted at District level every year to encourage the talent of Aranrery School Students in pannasai.
437 Pannisai classes have been conducted in Kaluthara, Jaffna, Batticaloa and Badulla Districts.
Seminars on pannisai was conducted at Bulathsinhala on 20.12.2014 for Aranery school students of Kaluthara District
For Aranery school students of Badulla and Batticaloa Districts seminars on pannisai was conducted at Lunugala on 20.12.2014.
Provision for Capital for the Development of Aranery Schools. 
In this basis, the fund was provided to 67 Aranery Schools of 18 Districts of Kandy, Kegalle, Colombo, Ratnapura, Kilinochchi, Batticaloa, Trincomalee, Jaffna, Vavuniya, Puttalam, Kaluthara, Mullaitivu, Badulla, Nuwara Eliya, Matale, Kurunagala, Galle and Polonnaruwa.
Seminar on Pannisai - Kaluthara
The following Hindu Religious Books were purchased for the reference purpose of Aranery School Students
Spiritual Leadership Training for Hindu Youths
The spiritual leadership training and capacity building programme which improve the spiritual and capacity building of youth are conducted every year.
It has been conducted on 19th and 20th of April in Badulla for the Hindu Aranery Schools youth in Badulla and Nuwara Eliya Districts, 5th and 6th of September in Kilinochchi Hindu College for Aranery Schools youths in Kilinochchi, October at Mankulam Sivasatkunanathar Achrama for Aranery Schools youth in Mullaitivu, Vavuniya and Mannar and 22nd and 23rd December in Ramakrishna Mission Hall, Colombo for Aranery Schools youths in Kegalle.
527 Hindu youths participated and benefitted.
Financial Assistance for Aranery School Building under “Deyata Kirula” Programme
Promotion of Hindu Religion
Department arranges and sponsors to conduct festivals in several Districts in order to promote Hindu religious activities and festivals.
Lecture series on Hindu Religion
Hindu religious lectures have been conducted in temples and Hindu religious institutions by the religious Scholars. 
121 religious lectures have been conducted up to now in 14 Districts namely Jaffna, Puttalam, Batticaloa, Ratnapura, Matala, Kandy, Ampara, Badulla, Colombo, Nuwara Eliya, Mullaitivu, Kilinochchi, Kaluthara and Galle.
Over 7500 public benefitted.
Guru Poojas
Special programmes are conducted in temples to celebrate Guru Pooja Days of Hindu Saints.
Guru Poojas for 90 Hindu Saints have been conducted in 16 Districts namely Jaffna, Galle, Ratnapura, Colombo, Badulla, Nuwara Eliya, Mullaitivu, Kandy, Trincomalee, Mannar, Ampara, Batticaloa, Matale, Gampaha, Puttalam and Polonnaruwa 
over 7200 Hindu people got benefits.
Hindu Religious Festival
Thaippongal – Stamp Release
Thaippongal special stamp was released with the sponsorship of Postal Department by Honorable Prime Minister on 2014.01.14 at Dhurkka Mani Mandapam, Jaffna.
Thaippongal Festival
Thaippongal celebration was arranged by the Department and celebrated in Jaffna Navalar Manimandapam, Vavuniya, Kilinochchi, Kaluthara, Colombo, Nuwara Eliya, Puttalam, Trincomalee and Batticaloa Districts on 2014.01.14.
Maha Sivarathri Pooja
Special Pooja and Spiritual Cultural Programmes were conducted with the assistance of the Department on 20th March at Sivan Temple, Ratnapura in order to celebrate Maha Sivarathri Fasting. 
Deputy Minister of Budhasasana and Religious Affairs, Members of Parliament from Ratnapura District, District Secretary,Director from Department and several guests participated in this occasion.
Further to this, special pooja and cultural programmes were conducted in the temples in Galle, Mullaitivu, Jaffna, Puttalam, Badulla, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kilinochchi and Polonnaruwa Districts with the assistance of the Department.
Sivarathri Festival conducted at Sivan Temple, Ratnapura
Navarathri Function
50 Navarathri Poojas were conducted at District level from 24th Sep to 03rd October in 19 Districts namely Jaffna, Batticaloa, Kandy, Nuwara Eliya, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, Ampara, Matale, Badulla, puttalam, Trincomalee, Matara, Ratnapura, Kaluthara, Polonnaruwa, Colombo, Galle, Gampaha, and Vavuniya
Sivarathri was also celebrated in the Parliament on 25.09.2014 with the presence of Members of Parliament, Secretaries to the Ministries, Directors of the Departments and other Officers.
Cultural Programmes were also conducted by the school students from Jaffna and Mullaitivu Districts.
“Punya Grama” Programme
In order to gather vulnerable people and teach them about Hindu moral characters, this progrmme was arranged in selected vulnerable areas.
from 09 Districts namely Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Batticaloa, Galle, Badulla, Vavuniya and Ratnapura 14 Programmes were conducted.
over 2050 public and school students participated and got benefits.
Classes conducted in Nallur Navalar Manimandapam
To improve the physical, mental, religious and cultural interest of Aranery School Students, 174 Yoga classes, 64 Miruthanka classes, 75 Violin classes, 102 Pannisai classes and 03 Hindu Saints Guru Poojas and Thiruvasaka festival were conducted at Nallur Navalar Manimandapam which is administrated by the Department.
54 Yoga classes, 430 Dance classes and Navarathri Pooja have been conducted to improve the Physical, Mental, Religious and Cultural interest of Aranery School students of Navatkuda Hindu Cultural Centre in Batticaloa which is administrated by the Department.
Deyata Kirula – Exhibition
With the concept of Crown to Nation, an exhibition was taken place from 21st January to 2nd February 2014 in Vayamba University, Kurunagala. 
All Ministries and Departments of Sri Lanka participated and arranged exhibition stalls. 
Action Plan, Information related to Programmes and Photographs were exhibited in the exhibition stall allocated for the Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs and the books published by the Department, exhibits which reveals Hindu tradition were also exhibited.
Other Festivals
Special Poojas were taken place at Sri Kathirvelautha Temple in Kegalle in order to celebrate 66th Independence Day of Sri Lanka.
Sabragamuwa Provincial Council Members, Kegalle District Secretary, Additional Secretary of this Ministry, Director and Officers of this Department and public participated at the event.
Further, Tamil literature and cultural festival was also conducted in Polonnaruwa and Badulla Districts and over 365 public participated and benefitted.
Language ability for Hindu Priest and Aranery School Teachers
Training classes to improve language ability of Hindu priest and Aranery School Teachers were started in August 2014 in Batticaloa and Jaffna Districts.
24 Sinhala classes, 24 English classes in Jaffna District and 41 Sinhala classes, 24 English classes in Batticaloa District have been conducted.
Independence Day Special Pooja - Kegalle
“Iniya Vasamtham”- Hindu Buddhist integrated programme (from Ministry Allocation)
Department of Buddha Religious Affairs joined with Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs is conducting Hindu Buddhist integrated programme with the guidance of the Ministry of Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs.
This programme was organized to make unity and understanding between Hindu and Buddhists.
Students, teachers, parents and priests of both Hindu and Buddhist get together in a place and exchange their opinions which lead to know about the arts, culture and traditions of each community.
08 Programmes were conducted this year.
Conducted at Kallady Hindu Culture Centre, Batticaloa from 03.05.2014 to 04.05.2014.
Conducted at Welikanda, Alsepura, Maithirugama Sri Sutharshnarama Vihara, Polonnaruwa from 31.05.2014 to 01.06.2014.
Conducted at Kopay Christian College, Jaffna from 20.06.2014 to 22.06.2014.
Conducted at Mahawa, Ehala Sri SutharnaramaVihara, Puttalam from 26.07.2014 to 27.07.2014.
Conducted at Bhothikshinarama Vihara, Vavuniya from 23.08.2014 to 24.08.2014. 
Conducted at Thirukketheeswaram, Mannar from 13.09.2014 to 14.09.2014.
Conducted at Mahadeva Achchirama, Kilinochchi from 04.10.2014 to 05.10.2014.
Conducted at Kokkeralla Uthurupavva Vihara, Kurunagala from 08.11.2014 to 9.11.2014.
For the program in Batticaloa
Siththi Vinayakar Aranery School,
Sri Veeraiyadi Aranery School,
Sivasakthi Aranery School,
Sri Nagalinga Vairavar Aranery School,
Sri Muthumaariyamman Aranery School,
Vivekanada Aranery School 
Bharathiyar Aranery School,
For the programmes in Jaffna
Sri Pararaja Pillaiyar Aranery School,
Sivagami Aranery School,
Sri Selvakkathirgama Mrugan Aranery School, 
Nellandaiyamman Aranery School,
Sivaththamil Aranery School 
Sivan Aranery School,
Sri Muthumariyamman Aranery School,
Poompuhar Siththivinayakar Aranery School,
Sri Murugan Aranery School 
Siththi Vinayakar Aranery School in Mannar,
For programmes in Kilinochchi
Sittoondi Vinayakar Aranery School, 
Arulmigu Kandasamy Aranery School, 
Swamy Vivekanadar Aranery School and
Sri Naagapoosaniyamman Aranery School were participated.
Iniya Vasamtham Programme, Batticaloa
Research on Hindu Religious Culture
Hindu Religious Research Conference
Department arranges research related to Hindu Religion annually with This year research on the heading of “Thiruvathavurarum Saivaththirunerium” was conducted from last 18th July to 20th July at Saraswathy Mandapam, Bamblapitiya.
Two items were taken place as research session and stage programmes.
45 essays were submitted as research essays in 15 sessions of these 3 days.
In the second day evening programme,the Prime Minister of Government of Republic Socialist of Sri Lanka and also Secretary to the Ministry of Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs participated as the Chief Guest and released research book and cassette. 
In these 3 days event, every day 200 public including university students, school students and interested public on Hindu Religion participated and benefitted.
Release of Cassette consisting Essays submitted in the Research Seminar, Suvioner,12th compilation of Hindu Encylopedia and Thiruvasaka songs.
The book “Moovar Thamilum Saivanerium” which was submitted in the previous year Research Seminar, 12th compilation of Hindu Encyclopedia and Thiruvasaka songs cassette were released.
750 copies of the book “Moovar Thamilum Saivanerium” consisting 40 research essays in 644 pages were printed and published.
During the first day of this event, “Thiruvathavurarum Saivanerium”, 1000 published copies of this souvenir was printed and distributed to the participants with free of charge.
This book contains 10 essays in 182 pages.
Publication of New Year Panchangam, Gopuram, Panpadu Information Books
3000 Copies of each1st and 2nd edition of “ Gopuram” which consists of information about the Department have been published and distributed and 1000 copies of each 1st and 2nd edition of “Panpadu” which is department research book have also been printed and distributed.
12,000 Copies of “Hindu Pnachangam” were published and provided to people, temples and Hindu Organizations 
4000 copies of Pillaiyaar Kathai was published and distributed.
15 Kinds of books were distributed to 150 schools and public libraries in all Islands in order to celebrate the month of reading.
Sanskrit Language Classes
3 Months Sanskrit classes started in Jaffna and Colombo.
28 classes with 25 students in Colombo and 29 classes with 12 students in Jaffna have been conducted.
Certificates awarding ceremony was conducted under the chairmanship of Mrs.Shanthi Navukarasan, Director of the Department on 21.06.2014 at Gurukulam, Jaffna and on 20.06.2014 at Conference Hall of the Department, Colombo.
Saiva Siththantha Classes
Department arranged and conducted Saiva Siththantha Classes for the people who are interested in it. 
It was conducted on 04th and 05th of April 2014 at Vivekananda College, Orr’s Hill, Trincomalee. 
As per the request of school teachers, and students, the classes were conducted for the students who learn Hindu Religion and Hinduism. 
Over 350 teachers and students participated and benefitted.
Research meetings and Discussions
08 Discissions were conducted by the Advisory Committee relating 12th compilation of Hindu Encyclopedia and printing of rare books.
Seminar on Sculpture and Architecture
Residential seminar on Sculpture and Architecture were conducted in 3 stages 1st and 2nd of July in Vavuniya 03rd and 04th of July in Kilinochchiand 06th and 07th of July in Mullaitivu.
250 public in Vavuniya, 175 public in Kilinochchi and 175 public in Mullaitivu including A/L students and teachers participated in these seminars.
Seminars to Government School Teachers who Teach Hindu Religion
80 Government school teachers who are engaged in teaching Hindu religion benefitted by the seminar conducted from 15.09.2014 to 17.09.2014 in Ratnapura, Galle, Kegalle, Matara, Colombo and Kaluthara Districts.
Manual for Famous Temples and Guideline Books for Hindu Temples
It has been decided to publish a manual consisting historical specialities of famous Hindu temples in Sri Lanka for the benefits of local and foreign devotees.
The temples in Jaffna, Mullaitivu, Batticaloa, Ampara, Trincomalee and further 76 temples have been selected and started to write essays until now.
Further, photographs of 10 famous temples in Jaffna have also been taken.
Dictionary for Tamil Words used in Eelam
This program is implemented to prepare a dictionary gathering Tamil words used by Sri Lankan Tamils.
On this basis, 1300 words have been arranged in electronic version and provided for the 1st printing.
Promotion of Hindu-Tamil Arts & Culture
Purchasing of Books from Sri Lankan Writers.
1825 books have been purchased from 70 writers and being distributed for encouraging Tamil writers in Sri Lanka.
Promotion of Falk Arts
Under the project to promote Tamil arts, seminar on falk Tamil arts was conducted on 10th, 11th and 12th October at Navatkuda Hindu Culture Hall, Batticaloa.
Around 150 artists from Jaffna, Batticaloa, Ampara and Up Country participated.
“Kalabhushana” Award
The great award Kalabhushana viruthu is awarded by the Department every year to the artists who have rendered yeoman service to the arts and culture.
This year, 100 eligible Tamil artists were selected to receive this award by the Evaluation Committee which was appointed by the Department.
456 Artists consists of 278 Sinhala artists, 100 Tamil artists and 78 Muslim artists were awarded in this ceremony which was held on 14th December 2014 at Bandaranayake Memorial International Conference Hall. 
Nearly 1000 interested public participated.
Development of Hindu Temples and Institutions
Financial Assistance to the Temples under Capital Expenditure
Rehabilitation of Hindu Temples (North East)
Cheques valued Rupees one lakh for each temple were provided to 363 Hindu temples through Divisional Secretaries for the rehabilitation in Northern and Eastern Provinces
District
No.of Temples
Jaffna
Batticaloa
Ampara
Trincomalee
Vaviniya
Mannar
Total
Sri Paththira Kaali Amman Temple, Thannamunai, Batticaloa
Sri Buvaneswary Ampal Temple, Thellipalai
Sriman Naarayanan Temple, Ampara
Siththi Vinayakar Temple, Poonagary
Rehabilitation of Hindu Temples and Institutions 
District
No.of Temples
Badulla
Colombo
Galle
Kaluthara
Kandy
Kurunagala
Matale
Matara
Nuwara Eliya
Ratnapura
Total
Under the Deyata Kirula Programme
Kurunagala
Puttalam
Total
Sri Kathirvelautha Swamy Temple, Rokkanthanai Estate, Hali Ela
Sri Katpakappillaiyar Temple, Thelpethatha, Badulla
Sri Subramaniya Swamy Temple, Rewon shoot Division Pallakedduwa, Badulla
Financial Assistance for the Rehabilitation of Temples in order to Deyata Kirula Exhibition
Financial assistance was provided through District Secretaries for the rehabilitation of 30 temples in Puttalam & Kegalle Districts for Deyata Kirula Exhibition and expenditure was made for 28 temples.
District
No.of Temples
Kegalle
Puttalam
Total
Financial Assistance for the Rehabilitation of Temples under “Vadakkin Vasantham”
100 Temples received cheques valued 2 Lakh per each through Divisional Secretaries for the rehabilitation of Hindu Temples under the Vadakkin Vasantham Programme.
District
No.of Temples
Kilinochchi
Mullaitivu
Mannar
Jaffna
Vaviniya
Total
Chithrameny Vairavar Temple, Jaffna	
Selvavinayakar temple, Olumadu, Mankulam
Dhurkka Parameswary Najinai Naagammal Temple, Thirumurikandy
Sri Saptha Kanny Temple, Vadduvagal, Mullaitivu
Promotion of infrastructure for Hindu Temples
79 Hindu Temples have been received Financial Assistance by cheques through Divisional Secretaries.
District
No.of temples
Kilinochchi
Puttalam
Ampara
Batticaloa
Jaffna
Mannar
Trincomalee
Vavuniya
Moneragala
Polonnaruwa
Kanda
Ratnapura
Colombo
Total
Holy Well of Sri Maanikka Pillaiyar Temple, Kiran, Batticaloa
Water Tank of Sri Muthumaariyamman Temple, Parappukadanthan, Mannar
Water Tank of Eelam Kasi Shesthiram, Kilinochchi
Financial Assistance for Hindu Temples under Recurrent Expenditure
Financial Assistance provided to 13 Hindu temples under the occasion of providing funds for “Kumbabisekam"
District
No.of Temples
Jaffna
Badulla
Nuwara Eliya
Puttalam
Kegalle
Mullaitivu
Mannar
Kandy
Ratnapura
Ampara
Colombo
Total
Sri Muthumariyamman Temple Kumbhabisheka Festival, Poondulooya
Thimilai Kannaki Amman Temple Kumbhabisheka Festival, Chillaw
Financial Assistance for Homes for Children and Elders
To encourage the organizations which maintain the homes for children and elders, financial assistance is granted annually, following districts were provided financial assistance this year.
Anpu Children Home, Muththaiyankaddu
Bharathy Children Home, Mullaitivu	
Financial Assistance to Hindu Organizations
Under the programme of providing financial assistance for the rehabilitation of Hindu Religious Organizations, fund was granted for the repairs of Bahavan Sri Sthya Saibava building and pilgrimage from Ampara to Kathiragama.
Publication and Distribution of Nandhi Flag
Nandhi flag is printed and issued to Hindu temples and other religious organizations by this Department annually.
The published and distributed Nandhi flag details are as follows.
Details of Nanthi Flags	
No.of total flags	
No.of published flags	
No.of distributed flags
Large Flags
Small Flags
(Tasseled Flags)	
Small Flags
(Triangle shape;)	
Hanging Flags
(Consists two Nanthies)	
Total	
Guideline Book for Administration of Hindu Temples
Department published a guideline book consists of common appointment files in 2014 to administrate the Hindu Temples considering its good and bad conditions of the administration. 
Department expects to follow the regulations perfectly as administration of the Hindu temples will be regularized in a limit and to achieve the purpose of appointing Temple Administrative Board.
Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs
Division wise financial progress 2014 
Development of Hindu Aranery Schools
Promotion of Hindu Religion
Research on Hindu Religion
Promotion of Hindu Tamil Art and Culture
Development of Hindu Temples and Organizations
Total
Registered Temples, Hindu Religious Organizations and Hindu Aranery Schools in the Department
(Up to 2014 December 31)
District	
No.of Temples and Organizations
No.of Schools
Temples
Organization
Schools
Teachers
Students
Designation	
Present cadre	
vacant
Director
Deputy Director
Accountant
Assistant Director
Assistant Director
Administrative Officer
Librarian
Research Officer
Development Assistant
Development Officer
Cultural Officer
Public Management Assistant
Manager for Hindu Pilgrimage Guest House
Assistant Manager for Hindu Pilgrimage Guest House
Driver
Hindu Cultural Assistant
Data Entry Operator
Cultural Sevakka
Office Assistant
Security Officer
Security
Maintenance Officer
*Contract basis
Hindu Cultural Fund 
Performance Report for the year 2014
Introduction
Fund for Hindu Tradition was established in 1985 by the 31st Act to perform Hindu Religious & Cultural activities independently.
03 Official members and 05 members appointed by Hon Minister will be appointmented as members for this fund.
The following members are the members for 2014.
President
Secretary,Ministry of Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs
Chief Administrative Officer
Director,Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs
Accountant
Accountant, Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs
Members
Assistant Director, Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs 
Financial Status	
Progress, from 2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
Financial Progress	
Physical Progress
Financial Assistance for Aranery School (Polonnaruwa) and Building for Oottady Pilliyar
Financial assistance to the bull in Naguleswaram Temple
Purchased 1129 uniform materials
This book contains research article related to Hindu Religion, History of Hindu Religion, Philosophy, Traditions, and Hindu Religious Leaders, Books, Temples and Fastings.
It was started in 1989 and completed in 2014. 
The details are as follows.
Sector of Hindu Encyclopedia
Year of Published	
Number of Essays
Letters
It is the first Encyclopedia in the world published by the Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs consisting of information about Hindu Religion.
Since this Encyclopedia is an useful document to all Tamil speaking Hindu people in the world, president of Malaysian Thiruvakku Thirupeedam came forward to republish this Encyclopedia.
action has been taken to reprint in 2015.
Reformation of Textbooks of Hindu Aranery School Students
According to the Policy Planning of the Government, Aranery Schools were started in 1989.
Along with the statement “Aranery Schools in Every Temples”, Aranery schools were started in temples and registered in the Department.
Syllabuses and books were printed for this.
At the end of 2014, syllabus and books were reformed to include new views.
for providing importance to discipline, moral values and dhamma, reforming activity is being done from Grade 1 to Grade 5.
Consultancy committee has been appointed by the department.
Action has been taken to revise the syllabuses.
In the first stage, textbooks for first 5 grades have been reformed and ready to print.
These books will be published in June 2015.
Performance Report - 2014
Department Of National Budget
Ministry Of Finance & Planning
Vision
Socio-economic Development through an Efficient Management of Public Resources
Mission
Facilitation of the performance of the responsibility conferred on the legislature for the management of public finance, by provision and distribution of resources for efficient delivery of public services and for the achievement of the development objectives of the Government
Functions & Responsibilities
Formulation of the National Budget
Preparation of Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) over a period of 03 years
Formulation of annual budget estimates for Ministries, Departments and Statutory Agencies of the government in consultation with the Spending Agencies and the relevant Treasury Departments to achieve the fiscal targets stipulated in the Fiscal Management (Responsibility) Act
Public Expenditure Management
Issuance of Budget Circulars
Enforcement of appropriate budgetary management measures to ensure that funds are used exclusively for the declared purposes within the approved limits
Interacting with the Spending Agencies to ensure the effectiveness of spending
Analysis of expenditure for monitoring of financial as well as physical progress
Representing the Committee on Accounting of the Parliament
Preparation of observations on Cabinet Memoranda
Granting approval for Vehicle Procurements, not included in the leasing method
Procurement of vehicles for all government agencies under the financial leasing method
Participation of Staff of Director Boards and Committees representing Treasury/ Department of National Budget
Financial Administration of the Department
Activities Related to Statutory Agencies (Non – commercial Public Institutions)
Preparation of cost estimates of non-commercial statutory boards funded by the Consolidated Fund
Reperesenting the Committee on on Public Enterprises (COPE)
Advance Accounts Activities
Determination of limits for the Commercial, Stores and Public Officer’s Advance Accounts in consultation with the spending agencies and consideration of the requests for revision of limits
Representing the Treasury at the Committee on Public Accounts (COPA) meetings on matters related to Advance Accounts
Contents
Chapter	
Subject
Page 
Overview 01
Review & Implementation of Budget 2014 
Appropriation Bill for 2014	
Performance 2014 
Sectoral Perspectives in 2014 Budget in the Medium Term Expenditure Framework of 2014-2016 	
Management of Budget 2014 
Budget Expenditure as per Government Accounts 
Public Expenditure Management 
Supplementary Estimate 
Urgent Requirements Expenditure in 2014 
Financial Obligation Management 
Issuance of Budget Circulars 
Monitoring of Advance Accounts 
Formulation of Budget Estimates for 2015
Budget Formulation Guidelines
Special Activities 
Budgetary Management of Non Commercial Public enterprises 
Observations on Cabinet Memoranda 	 
Coordinating “Deyata Kirula” Development Programme-2014 	 
Approval for the Purchase of Vehicles 
National Budget Approval for Vehicle Procurements 	 
Procurement of vehicles to the Public Sector
Participation of Staff on Boards and Committees	 
The Organizational Structure and Role of the Department of National Budget 
The Staff 	
Human Resource Development 	 
Foreign Training/Seminars/Meetings 	 
Local Training 
Financial Administration of the Department of National Budget 	
Advance Account of public officers  
Auditor General’s Queries for 2014  	 
Summary
The Department of National Budget operates under the guidance of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. 
The Department functions as the focal point for the formulation of Budget Estimates based on a sector wise Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in consistence with the overall medium term macro-economic framework. 
The MTEF presents its financial plans towards specific targets within the context of sectorial policy strategies while paying particular attention to the management of public expenditure. 
This process involves a continuous consultation with the line Ministries, Departments, Statutory Agencies of the Government and the relevant Treasury Departments.
Performance of the operational activities of this department is based on the broader scope of public finance management and planning of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and overall mandate of the Department of National Budget. 
In the year 2014, the department carried out a wide range of activities in relation to the implementation of Budget 2014 as well as preparation of Annual Budget of 2015 within the Medium Term Expenditure Framework, 2015–2017, as given in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1 
Summary of Performance – Year 2014
Function	
Activity	
Overall Target	
Achievements 
Implementation of Budget 2014 and Expenditure Management	
Issuance of Budget Circulars giving instructions on expenditure management
Manage public expenditure efficiently
Issuance of National Budget Circular Nos. 157 & 157(i) in this regard
Provision of additional funds for unforeseen expenditure and Submission of Supplementary Estimates to Parliament
Provide funds and reduce unforeseen expenditure
The additional fund requirements, especially for accommodating unforeseen incidents such as floods, draughts etc were addressed, managing the reallocation of funds within the approved expenditure ceiling, without submitting a Supplementary Estimate to Parliament.	
Authorization of transfer of funds under F.R. 66 and 69.
Maintain the expenditure within the approved estimates.
As per the Financial Regulations, 1589 applications were authorized.
Out of that, 242 applications were programme transfers and 1,347were project transfers.
Preparation of National Budget Estimate for 2015	
Issuance of Budget guidelines on the preparation of the Budget Estimates.
Issuance of letters to the Ministries, with the relevant guidelines on preparation of budget estimate.
Formulated the Budget for 2015 in line with the Government Development Policy Framework within MTEF 2015-2017.
Preparation of draft annual budget estimates in consultation with spending agencies and relevant departments of the Treasury
Ensure meeting the goals set out in the Vision for the Future; Development Policy Framework of the Government
Conducted pre-budget meetings for selected Ministries and other stakeholders with the Chairmanship of HE the President
Function
Activity
Overall Target
Achievement 
Conduct Budget discussions with relevant Ministries
Identify the actual requirements and prepare a realistic budget.	
Conducted meetings under the Chairmanship of the Hon. Minister of the relevant Ministry
Conducted review meetings with the Secretary to the Treasury and the Deputy Secretaries along with relevant Departments/ Agencies
Making necessary arrangements to present the Appropriation Bill for 2015 to Parliament, on time	
Making necessary arrangements to present The Appropriation Bill to Parliament in first week of Oct, 2014
Gazetted the Appropriation Bill for 2015 in the Gazette, dated 19. 09. 2014.
Preparation of detailed Printed Estimates
Preparation of detailed Printed Estimates with relevant to all the Expenditure Heads with analytical data
Pass the Appropriation Bill by Parliament	
Submitted the Appropriation Bill to Parliament on 26.09.2014.
Presented the Budget to the Parliament (Second Reading) on 24.10.2014.
Parliament passed the Appropriation Bill on 24. 11. 2014.
Appropriation Act No 41 of 2014 was certified by the Hon. Speaker on 24. 11. 2014.
Warrants were issued by HE the President as the Minister of Finance on 04. 12. 2014.
Function	
Activity	
Overall Target	
Achievement 
Submission of observations on Cabinet Memoranda
Submission of observations and comments on Cabinet Memoranda in line with relevant analysis of government expenditure	
Submitted 399 observations on Cabinet Memoranda.
Timely submission of observations on Cabinet Memoranda
Internal Management of the Department of National Budget	
General Administration
Financial Leasing Management	
Ensure efficient utilization of human resources and budgetary provisions allocated to the department	
Capacity Building 	
Develop human resources through local and foreign training	
Three officers were trained overseas while four officers were trained locally on programmes related to activities of the NBD.
Submission of Reports	
Submit reports before the deadlines
Performance Report 
Appropriation Account 
Reconciliation of public officers Advance Account	
Submitted the following Reports on time.
Performance Report 2013 
Appropriation Account 2014 
Reconciliation of public officers Advance Account 2014
Replying to the Audit Queries	
Minimize audit queries
Attend to COPA	
Replied to the all audit queries (07) forwarded by the Department of Auditor General.
Review and Implementation of Budget 2014
Appropriation Act for 2014
Accordingly, the Appropriation Act (Amendment) No. 47 of 2014 which includes the above changes was approved by Parliament.
Performance of Budget - 2014
Head-wise expenditures which were disaggregated in terms of Projects and by Object Codes with sources of financing presented to Parliament in the Printed Estimates along with the Budget Speech. 
Once the Appropriation Bill became an Act and the Minister of Finance issued warrants authorizing to incur expenditure as indicated in Printed Estimates. 
As per the budget estimates approved by Parliament for year 2014, provisions were allocated among 208 expenditure heads/spending units. 
This included both capital and recurrent expenditure namely, salaries and wages, welfare, operational expenses such as electricity, water, stationery fuel, diet, uniforms and the expenditure related to development programmes. 
Accordingly, the Advance Account activities of the year 2014 have been carried out within the approved limits.
Table 2.1 Utilization of Provisions - 2014
Name of the Ministry/Special Spending Units	 
Estimated Provisions	
Additional Allocation		
Total Expenditure
Actual Expenditure	
Unutilized Provisions 
Special Spending Units 	
Buddha Sasana and Religious Affairs	
Finance and Planning 
Defense and Urban Development 
Economic Development 
Disaster Management 
Postal Services	
Court 
Health 	
Foreign Affairs  
Transport 
Petroleum Industries 
Co-operatives and Internal Trade 
Highways, Ports and Shipping 
Agriculture
Power and Energy 
Child Development and Women's Affairs 
Public Administration and Home Affairs 
Mass Media and Information 
Construction, Engineering Services, Housing and Common Amenities 
Social Services	
Education 
Labour and Labour Relations
Traditional Industries and Small Enterprise Development 
Local Government and Provincial Councils 
Technology and Research	
National Languages and Social Integration 	
Plantation Industries 
Sports 	
Indigenous Medicine 
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development	
Livestock and Rural Community Development 		
National Heritage 
Parliamentary Affairs 
Re-settlement 
Industrial and Commerce	Affairs 
Irrigation and Water Resources Management 
Land and Land Development 	
Youth Affairs and Skills Development 
Environment & Renewable Energy 
Water Supply and Drainage 
Higher Education 	
Public Management Reforms 
Rehabilitation and Prison Reforms 
State Resources and Enterprise Development 
Civil Aviation 
Culture and the Arts 
Coconut Development and People's Estate Development 	
Wildlife Resources Conservation	
Minor Export Crop Promotion
Productivity Promotion 
Foreign Employment Promotion and Welfare 
Public Relations and Public Affairs	
Private Transport Services 
Telecommunication and Information Technology
Sugar Industry Development 	
Investment Promotion
Botanical Gardens and Public Recreation 
Education Services 
Law and Order  	
Debt Service Payment 
Treasury Miscellaneous vote (TMV)
Grand Total	
Provisions were provided from Supplementary Allocation.
Source: Department of National Budget/ Department of State Accounts
Sectoral Perspectives in 2014 Budget in the Medium Term Expenditure Framework of 2014-2016
The Budget 2014 was mainly based on the Development Policy Framework of the Government and on the strategies identified therein. 
The following operational scenarios were also applied in the formulation and implementation of 2014 Budget.
Sectoral basis – The budgetary allocations for 2014 were made in accordance with the sectoral policy framework developed by relevant stakeholders for the development of respective sectors during the medium term of 3 years.
Realistic assessment – The budget 2014 was based on an assessment of actual expenditure incurred under the limits provided in terms of Article 150 (2) and Article 150 (3) of the Constitution.
Slow-moving projects – Reformulation or phasing out of all such projects that have been carried in estimates for several years.
Prevent duplication and incompatibility - Proper recognition was given to identify duplicated and incompatible activities under each of the ministries. 
Also, instructions were given to distribute the allocations in all the spending agencies and the Provincial Councils in a manner that would manage the sectoral allocation.
In order to facilitate this sectoral process, all Ministries, Departments, and other Spending Agencies were classified under sectors in the Budget formulation, namely Social Security, Human Resource Development, Infrastructure Development, Real Economy, Environment, Research and Technology, Public Service Delivery, Defense and Law Enforcement. 
Accordingly, each spending agency was categorized into said sectors, depending on the activity undertaken.
Management of 2014 Budget
Total Government Expenditure 
However, the Government was able to limit the actual expenditure to 1370 billion, slightly lower than the original estimated 1470.8 billion.
Public Expenditure Management
The budgetary operations 2014 were managed within the expenditure ceilings approved by Parliament while ensuring achieving the targets of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework 2014-2016.
Among the tools that have been employed for prudent public expenditure management by the Treasury, the Supplementary Support Services and Contingent Liabilities (Treasury Miscellaneous Vote- TMV) was one of the main instruments to prevent supplementary budget to manage various unforeseen urgent requirements during the year.
Supplementary Estimates
The Supplementary Support Services and Contingent Liabilities Project (Treasury Miscellaneous Vote- TMV) continued to be implemented by the Treasury as a tool for the prudent management of public expenditure in 2014 in order to provide funds for unforeseen urgent requirements while preventing ad hoc supplementary budget estimates. 
The Treasury recognized an aggregate sum for this instrument during the budget formulation process considering the historical trends in public expenditure and budget deficits and other fiscal targets such as advance provisions to enable to improve favorable fiscal environment in the country. 
The provisions for supplimentary support were utilized as follows;
Table 2.2: Supplementary Provisions for Capital Expenditure
Major Areas	
Obligation Management
The Treasury issued guidelines to manage financial obligations which are being entered into by various spending agencies without having adequate provisions and thereby creating liabilities on the government and to ensure such obligations are included well within the budgetary provisions.
Also, they were directed to spend within the Medium Term Budgetary Framework that had already been approved by Parliament. 
The management of obligations, and recurrent and capital expenditure, was further strengthened by issuing the National Budget Circular No. 1/2014 dated 01.01.2014 requesting all spending agencies to adhere to the annual provision limits in 2014 Budget Estimate.
Further, guidelines on obligation management has issued by the Treasury through the Budget Circular No. 03.2014 on 18.08.2014 on Guidelines on preparation of Budget Estimates for 2015. 
Accordingly, all Accounting Officers were advised to establish proper systems to ensure commitments are made only within the approved annual budget.
Issuance of Budget Circulars. 
The Department has issued following circulars during the year 2014, providing guidelines required for expenditure management of the spending agencies.
Table 2.3: Issuance of Budget Circulars
Date
Circular No.
Title
01.01.2014 1/2014 	Authorization for Incurring Expenditure for 2014 and Public Expenditure Management
23.07.2014 2/2014	Implementation Of Budget Proposals 2014 Providing Motorcycles Field Officers in Public Sector
18.08.2014 3/2014	Guidelines for preparation of Budget Estimates for 2015
04.12.2014 4/2014	Incur expenditure within the revised Budget Estimates for 2014
26.12.2014 152 (II)	Guidelines for Provisions of relief to the Public in an Emergency Disaster situation and Restoration of Damaged Areas
29.12.2014 152 (III) Special Circular for provision of relief to victims of prevailing disaster situations 
30.12.2014 5/2014	Authorization for Incurring Expenditure for 2015 and Public Expenditure Management
Source: Department of National Budget
Monitoring of Advance Accounts
Monitoring of Advance Accounts operations continued under the purview of the department during the year 2014. 
Out of total 207 Advance Accounts; 196 Public Officers’ Advance Accounts, 4 Commercial Advance Accounts, 3 Stores Advance Accounts and 4 Special Advance Accounts were operated. 
According the provisions of Appropriation Act, limit revisions of 31 Public Officers’ Advance Accounts and 05 other Advance Accounts were submitted for parliamentary approval. 
Officers of this department attended meetings of the Committee on Public Accounts (COPA) held to examine the Auditor General’s reports on Advance Accounts in 2014, in Parliament.
Preparation of Budget Estimates for 2015
Budget estimates for 2015 were formulated within the ten-year development framework 2006-2016.
Accordingly, the Budget 2015 targeted the strategies to raise per capita income and transforming Sri Lanka to poverty free country by 2016.
Budget Formulation Guidelines
A standard Budget Circular was not issued for the preparation of Budget Estimates for the year 2015. 
All the Secretaries of Ministries were addressed personally giving guidelines to prepare their Estimates for 2015 by way of a personalized letter issued by the Secretary to the Treasury, which included all the specific instructions.
The department did a review on 2014 Budget and based on critical assessment, worked out a ministry-wise potential budget. 
By mid-August 2014 the department sent the indicative estimates for 2015 for each ministry with the detailed letter indicating the assumptions used to derive those estimates. Based on these, the ministries were requested to submit their draft estimates by September 2014 for negotiations between the Treasury and the relevant line ministry.
After holding long-term discussions separately for Ministries, it was confirmed whether the provisions have been allocated properly for all the projects. 
Special Activities
Budgetary Management of Non Commercial Public Enterprises
All matters relating to Public Finance and Budgetary Management of 122 Enterprises (Statutory boards) which are supported through the funds from the Consolidated Fund were carried out by the Department of National Budget during the year of 2014. 
The following functions with regard to these institutions were carried out by the Department of National Budget in 2014 to improve their financial and management efficiency.
Review the performance and the progress of these Statutory Boards, by analyzing and examining the Annual Budget, Annual Action Plan, Annual Accounts and Annual Report etc.
Revising of the requests for release of monthly cash imprest on the recurrent and the capital grants along with Department of Treasury Operation.
Assist, prepare and submit reports of the financial performance and management of Statutory Boards to the Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE), when the COPE meetings are convened by Parliament.
Grant approval for the purchase of new vehicles required by these Enterprises.
Purchasing and handing over new vehicles under the Financial Leasing Method and when necessary.
Review the Audit Examine Reports of the Auditor General and the Special Audit Quarries submitted to this Department. 
Coordinate with the relevant Statutory Boards on resolving these quarries and ensure that the remedial actions are taken to avoid occurrence of such audit quarries in the future. 
Submit recommendations to the Department of Management Services on the recruitment of new staff to Statutory Boards based on availability of Budgetary Provisions and actual needs of such institutions.
Grant approval of the Department of the National Budget to travel abroad for various purposes (trainings, meetings, seminars, conference etc.)
Advice and co-ordinate with the Statutory Boards on the other financial and management issues such as implementation of Mega Capital Projects etc.
Observations on Cabinet Memoranda 
During the year 2014, the department prepared observations to 399 Cabinet Memoranda for the Hon. Minister of Finance and Planning.
Coordinating “Deyata Kirula” Development Program 2014
The Department of National Budget has been involved in coordination of Deyata Kirula National Development programme such as, organizing pre-discussions, identification of areas to implement the program, identification of ongoing and new development projects in respective areas and expedite and prioritize, preparing & submitting Cabinet Memorandum, participating in National Operational Committees & Procurement Committees and overall fund management. 
In addition, the National Budget Department was responsible in releasing the funds timely for the projects and programmes approved by the Cabinet ensuring their smooth implementation.
Approval for the Purchase of Vehicles
National Budget Approval for Vehicle Procurements
In terms of the Cabinet decision of 31st January 1990, the National Budget Department grants approval for purchase of vehicles by Government Institutions. All ministries, departments, provincial councils, local authorities and all statutory boards, corporations and government owned companies (GOCs) whether under self-financing or otherwise, had to obtain the prior approval of the Committee for any such purchase. 
Accordingly, The National Budget Department continued reviewing the requests for procurement of vehicles by various government agencies and given approvals.  
During the year 2014, the Department has given approval for purchase of 1496 vehicles and N0. Of vehicles purchased by each category stated the table below.
Table 4.1: Vehicles approved by the Department of National Budget by Vehicle type, in 2014 
Type of Vehicle 
No. of vehicles approved
Motor Cars 
Jeeps 	
Vans	
Buses	
Cabs(Single / Double/Crew) 	
Three wheelers	
Lorries / Trucks 	
Motor cycles 
Ambulances	
Others (Tractors/ Trailers/ Water Bowsers, etc.) 	
Total	
Source - Department of National Budget
Procurement of Vehicles to the Public Sector 
Continuing the purchasing of vehicles for the use of government agencies on financial leasing method with approval of the Cabinet of Ministers on 30/08/2010, the government has made an attempt to manage the public expenditure efficiently. 
This method was applied as a part of cash flow management as the cost of vehicles could be distributed over 05 years.
However, at the end the vehicle becomes an asset of the concerned agency.
Accordingly, the Department of National Budget has continued purchasing vehicles for government agencies by calling competitive bidding from the state leasing companies of Banks. 
Upto now 3,916 vehicles have been purchased, including the vehicles used for CHOGM, on leasing installments to be paid over 05 years period in equal monthly installments. 
The purchased vehicles have been distributed among government agencies on the basis of a need assessment conducted by the Department of National Budget in consultation with relevant agencies.
Participation of Staff on Boards and Committees
Most of the staff officers of this Department have served as Directors (Treasury Representatives) on the Boards of Directors of Statutory Boards, Public Corporations and Government owned Companies (GOCs), while some Officers have served as Members	of Cabinet Appointed Tender Boards (CATBs),	and Technical Evaluation Committees (TECs) representing the secretary to the Treasury in these committees. 
In addition, Staff Officers of this Department attended meetings of the Committee on Public Accounts (COPA) and the Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE) in Parliament, representing the department.
The Organizational Structure and Role of the Department of National Budget
The Organizational Structure and role of the National Budget Department have been constructed with a categorization under the following comprehensive sectors which represent the provisions of Liner Ministries expenditure estimates.
Public Services
National Security and Law Enforcement  
Human Resources
Infrastructure 
Finance 
Social Security 
Environment 
Real Economy
Staff
Numbers of Officers under the following service levels were in the Organizational structure of NBD in year 2014 as per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
Service Level 
Senior Level 
Tertiary Level 
Secondary Level 
Primary Level
No. of Officers
As at the end of the year 2014, the approved cadre and the actual cadre of the department were as follows.
Table 5.1: Cadre of the Year - 2014
Designation 
Approved No. of officers
Actual No. of Officers
Director General	
Additional Director General	
Director		
Deputy Director 	
Assistant Director	
Accountant 	
Administrative Officer 	
Translator	
Project Officer 	
Budget Assistant	
Research Assistant	
Development Assistant 
Management Assistant	
Driver	
Office Assistant
Total	
Human Resource Development 
The department has directed its staff to the following local and foreign training programmes in 2014, in order to enhance their professional skills and working efficiency, in addition to attending various meetings in their official capacities.
Foreign Trainings/Seminars/ Meetings
Table 5.2: Foreign Trainings/Seminars/ Meetings- 2014
Name of the Officer 
Designation
Programme
Trained Country
Duration of the training
Director General
International Monetary Fund / World Bank Spring Meeting
Washington
11.04.2014 - 13.04.2014
Sri Lanka Investment & Business Promotional Seminar
Sweden
27.11.2014
Additional Director General
United Nations Economic and Social Commission for the Pacific - Asia (70th Session)phase I (ESCAP)
Bangkok - Thailand
23.05.2014
United Nations Economic and Social Commission for the Pacific - Asia (70th Session)Phase II(ESCAP)
Thailand
04.08.2014
Bangkok
08.08.2014
Assistant Director
Workshop & Parliamentary Briefing on Sustainable Immunization Financing
Cambodia
20.07.2014 - 23.07.2014
Non-communicable Disease in the South –East Region
India
18.08.2014 - 21.08.2014
Local Trainings 
The following staff members were given local training in different fields in the year 2014.
Table 5.3: Local Trainings
Name of the Officer
Designation
Programme
Institute
Duration
Assistant Director
Postgraduate Diploma in Economic Development
University of Colombo
01.01.2014 - 31.12.2014
Asst. Director
Postgraduate Diploma in Economic Development                
University of Colombo
01.01.2014 - 31.12.2014
Development Officer
Postgraduate Degree - Economics	
University of Kelaniya
2014/2015
Budget Assistant
Postgraduate Degree - Economis
University of Kelaniya
2014/2015 
Financial Administration of the Department of National Budget
Budgetary provision required for the normal operations of the Department of National Budget was shown under Head 240 in the Budget Estimates for 2014 and allocations were provided under 2 programmes.
a.	Programme	01  
Operational Activities 
Project of the Programme		
01 Budget Formulation and Policy
b.	Programme		
02  Development Activities
The provision related to departmental administrative expenditure on budget formulations and policies was provided by the Project No. 01 while Project 02, provided allocation for facilitating unexpected and unforeseen expenditure required by various spending agencies.
The budget also provided for the implementation of the budget proposals announced in the Annual Budget 2014 and the Government's policy priorities.
The above total provision was utilized as follows.
(1)	Programme 01		
Expenditure of Project 
(2)	Programme 02		
Provisions transferred to other	Heads under Project
Total	
Balance Provision	
Public Officers' Advance Account Activities
Table 5.4 - Public Officers' Advance Account for 2014
Category
Maximum Limit of Expenditure
Minimum Limit of Receipts
Maximum Limit of Debit Balances 
Source - Department of National Budget
Source - Department of National Budget
In terms of the Budget Circular No. 114 of 31.12.2003, figures of the above Table comprised only the transactions occurred under the Advance Account item No. 240-under 011, within the department. 
According to Circular No. 118, loan balances of officers who had been transferred out or in, were settled with Accounting Heads, under the Advance Account item No. 240-012. 
The Department had complied within the authorized limits of Public Officers’ Advance Account, accordingly.
Table 5.5 - Loans Given in Year 2014
Loan/Advance
Festival Advance 
Special Advance 
Distress and Bicycle Loans 
Total
Source - Department of National Budget
Auditor General’s Queries for 2014
During the year 2014, 07 queries were referred to this Department by the Auditor General and all the quarries were duly answered.
Annual Performance Report
Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Contents
Page number 
1.Introduction
2.The Institutional Structure of institutions under the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
3.The progress of institutions under the Ministry of National Co-Existence, Dialogues and National languages
3.1.Languages Division
3.2.Social Integration and Ethnic Affairs Division
3.3.Administration Division
3.4.Planning Division
3.5.Finance Division
3.6.Internal Audit Division
4.Department of Official Languages and its Progress
5.Official Languages Commission and its progress
6.National Institute of Language Education and Training and its Progress            
7.National Secretariat for Non-Governmental Organizations
8.Foreign Funded Projects under the Ministry
8.1.Facilitating Social transformation and integration Projects
8.2.Project for enforcement of law, accessing justice and strengthening of social integration.
9.Allocation of funds
10.Advance accounts
11.Review
01.Introduction
The Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages was established under the extraordinary gazette notification of no:1933/13 and dated 21.09.2015.
Prior to that, the National languages and Social Integration Unit functioned under the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and local government and Democratic Governance under the notification of the extraordinary gazette no:1897/15 and dated 18.01.2015 and prior to 08.01.2015 the Ministry had been established as the Ministry of National Languages and Social Integration.
The Ministry is situated at No:40,Buthgamuwa Road, Rajagiriya.
Vision 
A Sri Lankan nation strengthened by diversity, with reestablished coexistence and nourished cultural identities of all communities
Mission
Formulating policies, creating dialogues, guiding and facilitating in order to build a developed society with rights of all communities ensured, mutual respect and coexistence and implementing a relevant programme to achieve them.
Activities and functions of the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Formulating Policies, Programmes, Projects regarding the subjects of departments and statutory bodies under the subject of national co-existence and the ministry and monitoring and evaluating them.    
Implementation of Official languages policy and related matters.
Introducing and implementing necessary programmes of dialogues essential for re-establishment of solidarity and co-existence among ethnic groups. 
Providing necessary facilities for the use of national languages and link language in order to create an environment among ethnic groups for understanding social and religious backgrounds.
2.The Structure of the Institutions under the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages.
Ministry of National co-existance, Dialogue and Official Languages and its divisions 
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Centre
Kuruwita,Rathnapura
Ministry of National co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Web - www.lanintegmin.gov.lk
Northern Provincial Centre
Thirunagar, Kilinochchi
Language Division
T.P.
Fax
Social integration and ethnic affairs 
language Division 
Administration Division 
Planning Division
Finance Division
Internal Audit Division 
Ministry of National Co-existence,Dialogue and Official Languages and its divisions 
Institutions under the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Department of Official Languages 
Official Languages Commission 
National Institute of Language Education and Training
National Secretariat for Non-Governmental Organizations
Foreign Funded Projects Under the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Facilitating projects for Social Transformation and Cohesion
The strengthening of law, access to justice and Social Integration
03.Divisions of Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages and their performance
3.1.Languages Division
Introduction
Implementing relevant programmes in Sri Lanka with regard to implementing the official languages policy, monitoring the implementation of the Official Languages Policy and taking policy decisions are performed by Language Division.
The following are given high priority among the matters considered first in planning the programmes of the language unit;  
Of the recommendations of the Lessons Learned and Reconciliation Commission,  implementing the appropriate recommendations to implement the language policy
Implementing the recommendations given in relation to the implementation of the official language policy in accordance with the national policy on the protection of human rights
Implementation of the recommendations of the Officers' Committee report in relation to the acquisition of language proficiency by public officers
Objectives
Planning and compiling of policy to implement the official language policy
Building the necessary background for making public service bilingual
Empowering the general public in relation to the implementation of official language policy
Effecting a positive mentality among the general public of Sri Lanka in relation to propagation and promotion of language
During the course of 2015, the Language Division conducted programmes under 04 main targets; namely,
1. National Languages Development Programme
2. People’s Action for Bilingualism   
3. Trilingual Sri Lanka Programme
4. Programmes conducted in collaboration with the National Language Project (from 01.01.2015 to 31.05.2015 only)
3.1.1.National Languages Development Programme
1.Facilitation of Language Plan Programme
It is notified that all Public Institutions shall prepare a strategic plan to implement the policy on official languages as per the public circular no 18/2009.
In order to facilitate Institutions in this connection, this Ministry has compiled and published a guide book to help Public Institutions prepare Language Plans. 
While the Ministry, which has taken the subject of  implementing the Official Language policy effectively under its scope, has initiated "The Language Plan Facilitation Programme" with the objective of facilitating and preparing language plans in state institutions, the following activities have been implemented under the programme thus far.
Identification and training of relevant officers technical committees on preparation of language plans
A group of 54 officers belonging to institutions affiliated to the ministry and field officers was identified and given technical training on preparation of language plans under two programmes on Training of Trainers.
The first programme of it was conducted for 25 officers from 22.04.2015 to 24.04.2015. 
The second  was conducted for 29 field officers from  09.09.2015 to 11.09.2015.
The task of preparing language plans relevant to his/her field of service within a specified period of time was given to the trained officers in terms of an assignment.
Accordingly, the Ministry and its affiliated institutions and all District Secretariats have commenced preparing Language Plans and training the officers concerned. 
It is of special significance that the officers, who have been selected by Ministries, Provincial Secretariats and District Secretariats, contributing their technical expertise in the preparation of language plans. 
Commencing Programmes on facilitation of Language Plans in Ministries.
Under this Programme, providing facilitation to 5 Ministries in relation to Language Plans(Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Parliamentary Reforms and Mass Media, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Public Administration and Management, Ministry of Law and Order and Prison reforms)has been commenced. 
Accordingly, an awareness programme on preparation of language plans was conducted for officers of the institutions under the Ministry of Parliamentary Reforms and Mass Media on 16.10.2015.
Commencement of the process of facilitation of Language Plans in District and Divisional Secretariats.
Followed by an awareness programme, preparation of Language Plans has been commenced in Badulla, Galle, Kandy, Kurunegala, Nuwata-Eliya and Rathnapura districts and at the Divisional Secretariat of Kothmale.  
Providing officers of National Integration Promotion Coordinators/Assistants with the training on preparation of Language plans.
Under this programme, officers coming under the purview of Anuradhapura, Kandy, Kurunegala, Nuwara-Eliya and Rathnapura districts have been provided with the training concerned.
The officers concerned are engaged in preparing language plans for the offices they are attached to
Production of tools and accessories relevant to the implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Reprinting  of the Language Guidelines Books
Steps were taken to prepare 2000 copies of the Guidelines book and 2000 CDs of the same for devising language plans in Government Institutions.
The Language Guidelines Books are used as learning aids in Programmes on facilitation of Language Plans. 
Reprinting of the Sinhala/Tamil alphabet Books.
20,000 copies of the Sinhala/Tamil alphabet Books were printed as per the recommendations of the report of the committee appointed for identifying strategies for enhancing language proficiency of the public officers. 
These books have been distributed to the government institutions on priority based requests.
Creating audio-visual tools essential for regional level bilingual administration
Initiative has been underway in preparing five Digital Video Disks(DVD)based on five common occasions where bilingual conversations take place in government institutions.
In this connection, the initial part of the work has been completed and the future activities are expected to be completed in 2016.
Use of these tools will enhance the  opportunity of delivering the general public the bilingual services.
Compilation of the Ministerial news letter “Apurwa Nadee”
First and second issues of the “Apurwa Nade” were compiled and 3000 copies of them were distributed.
Accordingly, these“Apurwa Nade” news letters have been distributed to all Ministries, District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats.
Further, action has been taken to send the copies of this news letters by post to the Language Associations registered with the Ministry.
An attempt has been made through the newsletter “Apurwa Nadee” at opening a dialogue among various sectors of the society about the importance of achieving national harmony through bilingual skills.
Thus, a number of articles on Buddhism and Social Integration, importance of multilingualism and insightful artistic songs at stimulating inter-ethnic feelings have been successfully released.  
Conducting conversational workshops on the implementation of the Official Language Policy.
As for the efficient implementation of the official language policy, it is of great importance that the awareness of public officers implementing the Official Language Policy needs to be enhanced.
Focusing on this objective, institutional heads representing various sectors have been educated by the Language Division with regard to implementation of the official language policy.
Accordingly, HQIs of police stations, heads of local governments and other officials as well as school students have been acquainted with the legal provisions with regards to the implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Around 1000 police officers including high ranking officers of 78 police stations in Rathnapura, Kegalle, Nuwara-Eliya and Badulla districts have participated in these programmes.
Further, around 600 officers of government institutions coming under jurisdiction of the Northern Provincial Council, Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, Southern Provincial Council and North Western Provincial Council have also been educated with regards to the implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Under this  programme, the Language Division has enhanced the awareness of around 2,880 students in Kandy, Matara, Ampara, Gampaha, Colombo, Kalutara and Batiicaloa districts on the implementation of the Official Language Policy.
The structure of these programmes is designed so as to give the target groups an understanding of the Official Language Policy and legal provisions, policy framework of social integration, the role of the Ministry and its affiliated institutions, implementing the Official Language Policy.  
Accordingly, lectures by scholars, computer presentations and group activities were used in these workshops.
The service of Ministerial officers, trained as trainers, could be obtained in all programmes conducted for school children in this connection.
Since providing a basic knowledge on preparation of the language plans of the targeted institutions was one of the objectives of these programmes, the requisite technical knowledge was also provided with the officers.
04.Establishment of Bilingual Facilitation booths at District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats.
Since 2012, Bilingual Facilitation booths have been in the process of being established with a view to enhance facilities for the people to get their service done in the language of their choice.
On that basis, Bilingual Facilitation booths in all the72 Divisional Secretariats located in the 72 bilingual Divisional Secretariat Divisions have been established by this ministry. 
The Field Officers, attached to this Ministry, have been directed to these Divisional Secretariats so as to render a more effective service for the general public.
In the year 2013, having taken another step forward, the ministry successfully completed establishing Bilingual Service booths at 19 Divisional Secretariats. 
In 2014, having established Bilingual facilitation booths in 06 Divisional Secretariats and 08 District Secretariats, the Ministry in 2015 established such booths in the District Secretariats located in Colombo, Trincomalee, Puttalam and in Divisional Secretariats located in Lahugala, Padiyathalawa, Kundasale, Kegalle and Monaragala.
05. Establishing 14 innovative model centres in order to strengthen the process of implementing the Official Language Policy.
•Attention was paid to 04 main aspects that need  be taken into consideration in the implementation of the Official Language Policy. viz: 
Reflecting  upon the implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Preparing an administrative mechanism and a documentation process with regard to implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Providing the services with regards to implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Institutional commitment towards the implementation of the Official Language Policy
In line with the above initiative, 14 government institutions representing different sectors in Sri Lanka, selected under the fund of Canadian government by the ministry, were entrusted with the task of building inovative models in impllementing the National language policy.  
On that basis under the National Languages Project, 14 government institutions were selected based on 04 criteria by the Asian Foundation and developed as Innovative Model Centres. 
Among those institutions 07 Provincial Councils, 01 Divisional Secretariat, 03 police stations and 03 hospitals were built as innovative models. 
14 government institutions identified by the government in 2015 were futher  empowered as innovative model centres implementing Official language policy.
The main purpose of this initiative was to maintain these institutions as models that set examples to other government institutions related to this subject.
Under the initiative, the weaknesses in implementing the official language policy in the above institutions are being identified by rechecking the check list. 
Accordingly, the Language Division provided necessary provisions for implementing sustainable development programmes necessary to implement the Official Language Policy.
Under this activity, money allocations were made to the positive projects given to us Kanthale Pradeshiya Sabha, Bandarawela District Secretariat, Nuwara-Elya Municiple Council.
Accordingly, Provisions are to be made next year to Galle  Mahamodara Teaching Hospital ,Nuwara-Eliya Police Station and Trincomalee Base Hospital which have sent project reports. 
06.Setting up of trilingual sign boards at District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats
Providing necessary funds for setting up of trilingual sign boards at government institutions with a view to reflecting upon the implementation of the official language policy is yet another worthwhile initiative implemented by the language Division.
On that basis, action has been taken to provide funds to bilingual Divisional Secretariats. 
Accordingly, provisions of funds have been provided to 22 Divisional Secretariats. 
07.Promotion of National Languages through mass media 
The main objective of this programme is to enhance the radio listeners’ awareness of the role of the Ministry, the Language Policy and the Social Integration Policy.
Accordingly, the Ministry has contributed towards two radio programmes to be broadcast in the Sinhala and the Tamil languages.
Thus, the radio programme “Palama/Palam" (Bridge) was broadcast on the Commercial Service of the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation and the Thendral FM from January 2015 to September 2015.
(It was telecast on every Sunday from 10.30 am to 11.00 am).
While 38 programmes of it were  broadcast, action was also taken to broadcast it in the Ministry on every Wednesday. 
Subsequently, the Ministry contributed towards 18 programmes of  “Subharathi/Vidiyum Velai” during the period from October to December 2015.
Listeners were made aware of the Programmes through teaser programme.
08. Making provisions for the special projects related to Social Integration Week.
The Language Division identified various programmes related to the Social Integration Week annually declared by the Ministry. 
Of the above projects, five most effective projects were given Financial provisions by the Language division. 
Of the above projects, the following projects are very special.
Providing funds for the development of infrastructure facilities of a mixed school with less facilities located in Monaragala.
Taking steps to create a learning-friendly environment in a school for children in Negombo.
Making provisions for setting up of trilingual sign boards at the Cancer Institute in Maharagama to reflect upon the implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Improving the infrastructure facilities of 2 villages located in Haputhale where the plantation people reside. 
Development of a pre-school in Huseniyagamapura in Puttalam
3.1.2.People’s Movement for Bilingual Action Programme
01.Establishment of Language Associations
National movement for language associations can be identified as a programme for acquainting the general public with the importance of implementing the Official Language Policy aimed at creating a Sri Lankan nation enriched with equality and endearingly intertwined by the two languages.
Since this programme was initiated in 2012, up to now a total of 2,428 language associations have been established Island wide.
Language Associations registered in 2015 are 279.
In line with the above program, 206 language classes have been established covering the 25 districts with a view to enhancing Sinhala and Tamil language learning skills a well as improving bilingualism.
Accordingly, understanding the value of the implementation of the Official Language Policy by the general public in their residential areas will contribute towards bringing about coexistence in the society.
Providing provisions for projects proposed by the Language Associations in relation to promotion of Official Languages and social coexistence.
Implementation of various projects with the objective of building national harmony and mutual understanding among people in different areas of the country is another fuction being carried out by the language associations.
Among the above programmes, Organization of Sinhala-Tamil national festivals, Youth exchange programmes, conducting programmes to generate self-employment opportunities through language proficiency, organization of friendship camps for enhancing Sinhala–Tamil intimacy etc. could be worth mentioning. 
In 2015, the Language Division had been able to provide funds for 87 projects submitted by language associations established in different areas of the country.
Developing 04 identified  Divisional Secretariats as Innovative Model Centres.
Transformation of 04 government offices into innovative model centers is a programme commenced by the Language Division from this year.
under this programme, process of facilitation has been started by the  provincial centres to develope Kuruwita and Rathnapura Divisional Secretariats and Karachchi and Punagari Divisional Secretariats as Innovative Model Centres. 
Under this programme, the Language Division conducted an awareness programme to the public officers, including Chief Official Language Implementation Officer and the Official Language Implementation officer of the relevant Divisional Secretariats on the implementation of the Official Language Policy and afterwards it provided them with necessary guidance to prepare language plans and implement the official language policy effectively in their respective institutions.
At the conclusion of the initial programme, steps were taken to give the assignments to prepare language plans in relation to the institutions concerned and now the task of preparing language planns are taking place at the institutions concerned.
The technical guidance required in this regard will be provided by the officers of the Language Division who have been trained in preparing language plans. 
3.1.3.Trilingual Sri Lanka Programme
Under this programme, funds were provided to the National Institute of Language Education and Training for conducting language classes.
3.1.4.Programmes conducted in collaboration with the National Language Projects.
01. Providing the National Language Division with the necessary technical assistance for planning of programmes relevant to implementation of the Official Language Policy, leadership and institutional empowerment.
Workshop for training of focal point officers on Gender.
26 focal point officers, who were selected subsequent to the Gender Sensitization Programme series held in 2014, successfully completed a three-day work shop on promotion of Gender.
Officers of the Ministry and its affiliated institutions, representing Sinhala and Tamil mediums attended the workshop.
At the end of the programme, the preparation of an approximate action plan for implementation of Gender Sensitization programmes of their respective institutions took place.
Setting up of Bilingual Facilitation booths
Bilingual Facilitation booths established in Morawewa and Walapane District Secretariats were provided with infrastructure facilities.
Thus, both booths were furnished with required computers and other accessories.
Bilingual facilitation services are being rendered through the National Integration Promotion Coordination officers attached to these offices from the Ministry.
02. Provision of technical assistance for implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Compilation of the Hand Book on Implementation of the Official Language Policy and Legal provisions.
A hand book containing the Official Language Policy and related law was complied to be used along with the Hand Book of Language guidelines on preparation of Language Policy in public institutions.
Information on all circulars issued and Acts passed thus far pertaining to the implementation of the Official language Policy are made available to the public officers through this book.
1500 copies of the book and 3000 CDs containing the guidelines of Hand Book have been produced.
These tools are made use of in the programmes organized by the Ministry for implementation of the Official Language Policy.
Technical training on Preparation of Language Plans
The Needs Assessment Workshop with regard to carrying out technical training for preparation of language plans of the government institutions was conducted with the contribution of the Asia Foundation.
Subsequently, the compilation of the following hand books on preparation of language plans of the government institutions took place.
Hand book of simple language guidelines for preparation of language plans at Ministry and Department level
Hand book of simple language guidelines for preparation of language plans of the District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats
Hand book of simple language guidelines for empowerment of Ministerial Focal Point Officers on preparation of language plans
Preparation of the hand book of issue-solutions to manage the calls received by the Language Call Center with regard to preparation of language plans.
Training of technical officers on utilizing these hands book in preparation of language plans was carried out with the financial contribution of the National Language Project and the technical contribution of the Asia Foundation.
Accordingly, empowering of 54 officers of the Ministry and its affiliated institutions as Language Plan Technical Committee Officers took place.
These officers contribute the technical knowledge in the training programmes on preparation of language plans, conducted by the Ministry.
03. Contribution to the Language Road Map programme.
Contributing towards the Language Road Map of the Ministry
Language Road Map can be introduced as a five-year strategic plan for efficient and effective implementation of the Official language Policy in government institutions.
while this is a document installed  within Ministries from the ground level to the national level, it contains the strategic plans and policy solutions relevant to efficient and effective implementation of the Official Language Policy in the respective institutions.
Compilation of the simplified Road Map document containing the facts to be considered by the other Ministries in the preparation of their Road Maps, is yet another undertaking being carried out with the technical contribution of the National Language Project.
Whilst all the documents are available in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, these documents need to be revised in line with the subject scope of the new Ministry.
Concluding Ceremony of the National Language Project
This event was held in Colombo on 24.04.2015.
During the course of the event, discussions and presentations based on the success of the national language  projects carried out from the initial stages up to now took place.  
During the course of the event, of the projects initiated by the National Language Project, those projects to be continued in the future as well were discussed.
In the sidelines of the programme, an attempt at obtaining a rough understanding of the network systems needed for the future activities of the Ministry also made.
04.Programme on the establishment of Regional level innovative models
Under this programme, 02 needs assessment workshops were conducted to identify the needs in providing technical training relevant to the preparation of language plans of the government institutions.
Preparation of the Hand Book of issues- solutions essential for managing the calls received by the Language Call Center with regard to preparation of Language Plans
Compiling the handbook of Simple Language Guidelines for preparation of language plans at Ministerial and Departmental level took place.
The ministry was introduced the Innovative Model Centres expansion programme aimed at extending the concept of Innovative Model centres to the other government institutions as well.  
Accordingly, 04 Divisional Secretariats and 02 Pradesheeya Sabha are developed by the ministry as Innovative Model Centres.
05.Empowerment of Provincial Centres
The National Languages Project has provided Infrastructure facilities for the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Center and  technical assistance for the programmes being conducted by the representatives of language associations in collaboration with Sabaragamuwa Provincial Centre. 
The Management Planning bill for maintaining a good management of the Provincial centers has been handed over to the Ministry.
Performance as per the Action Plan
Financial Progress of the Language Division
01. National Languages development programme
02. Bilingual Public action programme. 
03. Trilingual programme.
Total	
Estimated expenditure	
Actual expenditure.                 
3.2.Social Integration and Ethnic Affairs Division 
Introduction 
Creating a better society for all the people to live on the basis that all the people living in a country are its citizens, will lead the country towards the development.
There must be a clear path in order to achieve that target.
For instance, we should work within the framework of an appropriate policy.
However, there had not been a policy for social integration in the country and hence the Ministry of National Languages and Social Integration stepped forward to formulate the National Policy for Social Integration.
The objectives of this policy are promoting a sense of responsibility in all citizens as equal partners in the process of promoting social integration and creating a sense of belongingness to the society, creating a society nourished by the pillars of discipline, education and empowerment and strengthening the basis of social integration policy.   
One of the objectives of this process is  identifying the importance of Communication and a common media with a sense of social responsibility as an inter-medium that could contribute towards social integration. 
3.2.1 Social Integration Week	
Cabinet approval had been granted on 2012/07/19 to hold social integration week annually.
Although Social Integration Week was not held due to the changes took place in the country in 2015, several parallel programmes, such as social welfare and educational programmes were held island-wide.
There are several ethnic groups based on race, caste, religious beliefs, cultural background and gender living in the society. 
All these groups and ethnic divides stand united and carry out programmes contributing labour with commitments. 
These programmes are carried out such a way that the benefits of them reach all the people living in the society. 
On that basis, programmes carried out on regional level with the contribution of the people of the society is one of the programmes of social integration week.
Under this programme, essential basic facilities such as rehabilitation of pre-schools, children parks, health facilities, elders' homes, community centres and supplying drinking water, rehabilitating bridges, roads, school buildings were carried out. 
In the year 2015, two programmes per district were carried out.
Community centre prior to the rehabilitation 
Community centre after the rehabilitation 
One of the main programmes of the Social Integration Week was the conducting of the year 5 scholarship program, aimed at empowering school children gain access to education as one of the seven elements of social integration.
Under this programme, steps were also taken to hold a discussion based on answering model question papers of year 5 scholarship examination  for students of difficult areas.
Under this programme commenced in 2013, two programmes per district were carried out.
In compliance with  the requests received, 79 such programmes were conducted in 2015; 38 Of them 38 were Sinhala medium programmes while 41 were Tamil medium programmes.
In 2015, 11862 Sinhala medium students and 11793 Tamil medium students were benefitted out of these programmes. 
In 2015,45 social integration programmes parallel to Social integration week with the contribution of language societies were implemented.
Under these programmes, there were programmes to develop friendliness, knowledge of language, skills and attitude among ethnic groups and initiatives to prepare name boards in three languages in Monaragala and Buttala Divisional Secretariats.
Through these programmes, many benefits such as improvement of education, economic and infrastructure facilities, building of mutual understanding and trust among ethnic groups, awareness of social integration were granted to the marginalized general public.
Programmes of this nature were carried out with the objective of taking the multi-ethnic, multi-religious, peaceful country with several social strata respecting one another towards accelerated development. 
3.2.2 Mobile Services for providing legal Documents
The objective of this programme is to provide the impoverished people in the society with  basic legal documents essential to live as one of the fellow citizens in the society by creating mutual trust among all Sri Lankans regardless of ethnic differences.  
While steps were taken to  provide the people with an opportunity to obtain all these services in one place, all these services were provided to the people free of charge without any interruption.
(For instance, charges for photos and stamps for NIC, birth certificates, marriage certificates and death certificates and charges for new marriages were provided with individuals concerned without being charged.)
While this enables people to save time and labour, this also helps them to obtain the NIC, the document essential to establish their identity as citizens and thereby get themselves socialized. 
Mobile services were conducted for providing Civic Documentations, covering five Divisional Secretariats in the year 2015. 
These mobile services were conducted in Hanguranketa, Walapane, Ayagama, Pelmadulla and Hali-ella divisional secretariats.
In addition to that, 5000 Legal Documentation folders with details  were printed and distributed among all the families each in Kiriella Divisional Secretariat to keep their legal documents safely.
Services rendered,
Issuance of National- Identity Cards-NICs have been provided to about 967 individuals in 2015. 
Issuance of birth certificates, registration of late births, making amendments, probable birth certificates-about 2073 documents of the above nature have been issued in 2015.
Registrations of new marriages-30 couples, who had been living together without married, were registered free of charge in 2015.
Issuing of police reports  for lost National Identity Cards - Police reports were issued in place of lost NICs free of charge.
Issuing Passports, Issuing Certificates of Justice of Peace - Steps were also taken to provide affidavits in relation to NIC’s, Birth, Marriage and Death Certificates.
Issuance of Senior Citizens' Identity Cards - steps were taken to provide Senior Citizens with photos free of charge and thereby to provide NICs.
Approximately 507 Senior Citizens were benefited by this programme in 2015.
These Mobile Services were carried out covering especially the Northern and Eastern Provinces, plantation  regions and backward areas. 
(Mullathive, Kilinochchi, Mannar, Batticaloa, Trincomalee, Ampara, Ratnapura, Badulla and Nuwara Eliya Districts)
Since 2013, steps have been taken to conduct mobile services from 2014 based on the statistics identified in 12 districts under the project Equal Access to Justice of the ministry to issue legal documents. 
3.2.3 Youth Camp for Social Integration
The objective of this youth camp is to create a young society knit with wholeheartedly by creating social integration based on peace, co-existence and social integration among youths of different ethnic groups. 
“Social Integration” Youth Camps are held annually by the ministry as one of the special programmes in recognition of them as a leading group capable of taking up the future and bringing about a social change. 
04 Youth Camps per year are organized and there are facilities for about 100-150 males and females around the age of 18-30 representing Sinhala, Tamil and Muslim nationalities to take part in a camp.
This youth camp includes programmes to develop leadership and skills, lectures by university lecturers, music as a medium of social integration in  establishing  reconciliation amongst the youth, programmes on methods of teaching Tamil, Sinhala and English languages and avenues for youths to expose their talents. 
In 2015, there were two camps held and about 200 youths participated in them.
Vocational Training Authority briefed the youths participated in the camp on the trainings available through vocational guidance service and also took action to provide them with employment opportunities. 
3.2.4 Social Integration Programme for Orphans and Single Parented Children
Access to Education is one of the goals of the Policy of Social Integration.
Attention is focused on preventing any injustice or marginalization within the education sector caused by  socio-economic inequalities or ethnicity or religion in order to provide the right of access to education.
A programme to provide school equipment to school  children of marginalized groups, who have a single guardian or lost their parents, has been implemented by our ministry in order to help them gain access to education.  
This programme was implemented in Puttlam, Kurunegala, Kandy, Batticaloa, Matara and Colombo Districts in the year 2015.
More than 1270 schools children were benefited.
It helps to draw the attention of the disadvantaged school children towards education by facilitating them and  to socialize them through the development of knowledge, skills and attitudes of vulnerable groups in the community.
3.2.5. Cultural and Religious Programmes
Sri Lanka being a multi ethnic country, Sinhala, Tamil and Muslim nationalities live in this country.
In accordance with these ethnic groups, their religions and cultures differ from each other. 
Such cultural festivals are Thaipongal, Sinhala Hindu New Year festival, Haj Festival, Deepavali and Christmas.
An event to celebrate different religious and cultural festivals of this nature is held at the ministry annually.
This event provides an opportunity to learn about the values ​​of different religions and cultures within the same community.
This ensures mutual trust, understanding, mutual respect and welcoming amongst each communities living in the society.
People belonging to all the ethnic groups take part in these festivals regardless of ethnic differences.
In 2015, festivals of this nature were conducted by the ministry in Kandy, Matale and Colombo Districts.
3.2.6 Providing financial assistance to the Social Integration related activities carried out by other Institutions.
With the objective of building Social Integration , events related to social integration are held with the collaboration of other institutions or financing them are done by our ministry.
Accordingly, the programmes for which financial assistance was given in 2015 are as follows.
Kalutara-Providing wooden furniture for Diri Daru Piyasa Children’s Home (Children with mental retardation)Bandaragama.
Galle-Providing learning materials and stationeries essential to the special education units of two schools in Thavalama.
(For the school children of the Special Education Units in Vidyaraja Vidyalaya in Thavalama and Mahabodhi Vidyalaya in Panangala)
Gampaha-Providing sanitary facilities to the community hall located in Mahaththuwa Grama Niladari Division.
Kurunegala-Development Programme for special needs children under “Apen Obata Athwelak” in Kurunegala(five selected Divisional Secretariats in the District)
Puttlam-Socializing school children of less resourced  schools located in difficult areas by assuring their future through vocational training and providing books for school libraries concerned.
(Sinhala, Tamil and Muslim students of 04 selected schools in Vanathawilluwa and Kalpitiya Divisional Secretariats)
Matara- thihaagoda,Fostering national unity in the hearts of the children by wall painting
(Painting competition for school children and awareness programme on language policy/social integration) 
Mannar–Programme on peacebuilding and co-existence based on the experience gained by cultural and sports
Jaffna–Providing water and sanitary facilities for Vigneshwara pre-school located in Wadewatta GS Division.
Ratnapura-Building social integration by establishing cooperative education programme in Balangoda 
(Establishing library facilities at Rassagala Tamil Vidyalaya and Rassagala Sinhala Vidyalaya)
Kalutara-04 day educational tour to build National Unity by languages programme-(Grade 10-11 Tamil learning students of Horana, Sripalee Vidyalaya)
Colombo-Protecting children by preventing child abuse and harassment of children  from taking place in Timbirigasyaya
Kelaniya–Empowering programme for differently abled children 
Agalawatta–Constructing a toilet for students of Tamil Primary School located in Galewatta, Agalawatta.
Matugama–Constructing a toilet for the Community Hall located at 79 C Badugama Nawajanapada in Matugama Divisional Secretariat.
Colombo– Seethawaka, Senehasaka Thaksalawa Integration programme of students of schools located in the North and South
(Students and teachers of St.John Bosco College and students and teachers of Nageshwara Vidyalaya in Killinochchi)Further, some programmes are carried out with the provisions of Ministry of Child Development and Women Affairs.
Among them, the programmes mentioned below have been conducted.
The awareness programme on the issues faced by the female employees in the government sector.
Health Clinic.
Programme on prevention of Gender based violence.
3.2.7. Conducting dialogues involving religious leaders and community leaders towards enhancing social harmony.
While this programme was conducted with the objective of fostering mutual understanding among religions at Divisional secretariats and building mutual trust and thereby building a society with mutual respect for each other, multi-religious groups, teachers and students of Damma Schools, civil security group, community leaders, youth teams and government employees participated in the programme.
While the dialogue helped each member get an awareness of the religious and cultural facts of others, it also focused on the disputes taking place among religions and as to how they could be resolved.
Giving priority to mitigate religious issues when cropping up among religions in the society, avoiding religious conflicts among religions, ensuring unity among religions are good deeds done by this programme.
Programmes of this nature have been carried out at the Divisional Secretariats of Badulla,Matara,Galle and Kegalle Districts.
3.2.8. Dialogue with Media towards enhancing social harmony
Performance as per the Action Plan
Financial Progress of the Social Integration and Ethnic Affairs Division
Implementing the National policy on Social integration via stakeholders concerned.
Ensuring socialization by effecting changes in knowledge, attitude and skills of vulnerable people.
Creating awareness on the importance of protecting their uniqueness and developing mutual understanding in the society. 
Estimated cost
Actual cost
3.3 Administration Division
Introduction
Main objectives of the administrative branch are maintaining better institutional administrative environment, managing human and physical resources, fulfiling career needs of staff and assisting the ministry in implementing its services.
Functions of the Administrative Branch 
Internal administration of the ministry
Getting approvals of carder
Preparing Scheme of Recruitment
Activities related to appointments, transfers and promotions 
Maintenance of personal files
Disciplinary activities 
Training
Maintenance of physical resources including building and vehicles
Coordinating Parliament Advisory Committees
Preparing cabinet papers
Performance as per the Action Plan
Financial Progress of the Administration Division
Compulsory Tamil training programme for National Integration Coordinators under the programme of bilingual knowledge improvement-stage I-IV, days 10x06
Initial training programme meant for National Integration coordinators
Training programme to improve  knowledge, attitude and skills
Programme on Bachelor degree studies 
Programme on improvement of vocational training  
3.4 Planning Division
Introduction
The Planning Division is one of the main divisions of the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages.
Projects/programs implemented by the ministry to obtain results generated, efficiency, effectiveness are monitored and evaluated.
By reviewing the progress monthly and quarterly in terms of reports on the Action Plan and reporting back to the management on the instances of deviations from the expected targets. 
The functions of the Planning Division
Coordinating with the divisions of ministry and the institutions functioning under the Ministry to prepare the Annual Plan and the Annual Performance Report of the ministry.
Coordinating the implementation of the activities in relation to the pilot projects identified by the Ministry.
Regulating and evaluating the activities undertaken by the Ministry and the Institutions under it.
Preparing the Monthly, Quarterly and Annual Progress reports and submitting them to the Secretary to the Ministry, Department of National Planning, Department of National Budget, Department of Project Management and Evaluation and any other interested parties.
Preparing Progress and Action Plan for the year ahead and submitting the same to the Parliament during the course of the budget debates. 
Maintaining, updating and developing the data of the Ministry.
Preparing the Annual Performance Report and submitting it to the Parliament, Ministry of Finance and Planning and Auditor General.
3.5. Finance Division
Introduction
Coordinating the financial services, and relevant units and thereby Preparing and maintaining positive financial ​information and financial management structure.
The main functions of the Finance Division
Assisting the Secretary to the Ministry in the capacity of Chief Accounting Officer to implement the financial obligations of the Ministry and be accountable for the Parliament
Ensuring compliance with the financial obligations and regulations of the Government
Establishing and maintaining a sound financial accounting structure including finance management
Coordinating with the Treasury and the institutions under the Ministry and Foreign Funded Projects to prepare/update/review financial reports and budgetary requirements and finalize accounts
Financial planning and budgeting
Ensuring timely and accurate financial reporting
Management of assets of the Ministry 
3.6 Internal Audit Division
Introduction
Assisting the Management by reviewing, measuring, evaluating and reporting on compliance with the internal management system of services and functions carried out by the Ministry and institutions functioning under it.
The functions of the internal audit unit
Evaluating the success of the system of internal control carried out in the Ministry and other institutions under it in order to avoid errors and frauds and assisting to strengthen the internal administration
Ascertaining the reliability of the accounting and other reports and checking if the recognized accounting methods employed provide the information necessary for the preparation of correct financial statements
Appraising the quality of performance of the staff in carrying out the responsibility assigned to them
Ascertaining as to how the assets of ministry and its institutions are safeguarded from all kinds of losses
Monitoring whether the establishment code, financial regulation, public administration, treasury  and other circulars and instructions are adhered to
Carrying out special investigations whenever necessary
Conducting audit and management committees
Department of Official Languages and its Performance
Department of Official Languages
Introduction
Department of Official Languages was established on 01.10.1956 as an Institution tasked with the implementation of Official Language Act no 33 of 1956.
Both Sinhala and English languages were made Official Languages of Sri Lanka while English language  was named the link language as per 13th and 16th amendments to the Constitution of Sri Lanka enacted in 1987 and 1988 respectively.
As per the articles 18 and 19 of Chapter IV of the Constitution, Department of Official Languages, as the facilitator for effective implementation of Official Language Policy, is engaged in providing translations to the government in all three languages, enhancing the language competence of public officers, compiling glossaries and preparing textbooks and dictionaries.
The Department of Official Languages situated at “Bhasha Mandiraya” No:341/7, Kotte Road, Rajagiriya is headed by the Commissioner of Official Languages.
Vision
Peaceful trilingual society with coexistence
Mission
Providing facilities and co-ordination for implementing the Official Languages Policy efficiently with the objective of establishing ethnic unity and peace
Major functions performed by the Department
Conducting written and oral examinations and issuing certificates to the officers who are required to acquire official language proficiency in terms of Public Administration Circular No.01/2014 and 04/2014
Carrying out translation tasks of government and semi–government institutions(in  Sinhala, Tamil, English)
Compiling Sinhala, Tamil and English glossaries on various subjects
Compiling and selling of textbooks and guide books for the Language Proficiency tests of public officers
Compiling of trilingual glossaries.
Teaching international languages just as Sinhala, Tamil, and English languages and holding examinations with the application of modern technology
Conducting Language Proficiency and Efficiency Bar Examinations for the staff of external institutions.
Providing practical training for those students who follow translation degree programmes in universities and other recognized educational institutions.
Divisions such as examination, Translation, Language laboratory, Publications and Selling, Glossary Compilation, Research, Development and Library have been established in the department to carry out the above functions.
4.1 Providing facilities helpful to obtain language proficiency
01.Printing of books and practical books.
The major function of the Official Languages Department is to compile textbooks and other supportive books as a written media for professionals and all those interested in learning Official Languages.
Accordingly, 10,000 copies of “Spoken Tamil book” and 4,590 copies of “Written Tamil book “ were printed.
The major responsibility that was entrusted with the Department was the formulation of 04 textbooks both in Sinhala and Tamil Languages in simple style to be used easily with the view to providing facilities to learn the second language for public officers as per 8.2(a)recommendations under the implementation of recommendations made by the committee appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers  on the language proficiency of public officers.
Pre-research workshop on teaching lessons in the Sinhala textbook Level-IV.
This workshop was conducted on 27,28, and 29.08.2015 for the officers belonging to level-IV of the Public Service at Trilingual Learning Centre in the city of Jaffna.
Sessions of pre–research workshop on teaching lessons in the Sinhala textbook–Level IV
The task of compiling textbooks during the year 2015 was finalized and 10,000 copies of textbook-level IV (Sinhala and Tamil),30,000 copies of textbook– level III(Sinhala and Tamil), 40,000 copies of textbook-level II (Sinhala and Tamil ),10,000 copies of textbook level-1 have been handed over for printing.
02.Conducting Language Proficiency Examinations
Conducting of written and oral examinations public officers, issuing of results and result sheets were carried out with the objective of assessing Language Proficiency of public officers and encouraging them to acquire bilingual Language Proficiency.
Evaluation of Listening skill test using technical instruments was commenced on 23rd October this year.
Various instances of the workshop for preparing question papers for oral tests
In 2015, written Test for Official Languages Proficiency Level I, II, III, IV was held on 31.05.2015 for 75,606 applicants.
The Number of participants was 30582.
Under the programme of conducting oral tests for candidates who have passed written examination and  second language in G.C.E.(O/L) examinations, Oral tests were conducted for 44,047 officers who passed the written examination in previous years.
44,047 results sheets and 297 certificates (old)have been issued.
Also, issuing of  result sheet printed on a special protective paper for all candidates was commenced this year.
In 2015, steps were taken to conduct examinations for 11 external institutions.
4.2 Providing translation services to government and semi-government institutions and compiling glossaries.
Providing translation services using state of the art technology and techniques is yet another specific role of the Department.
Under the task of providing necessary inputs for making translation work efficient,a Sinhala/Tamil auto-translation software is now being prepared in collaboration with the University of Moratuwa.
Similarly, letters equivalent to Sinhala/Tamil languages are being translated.
For this purpose, Training was provided to 04 officers of the Department.
02. In order to improve the knowledge of experts, professionals, students and writers and generally all groups of people, a new trilingual glossary is being compiled  by the Glossary Section of the Department.
Under the programme 
Building and Construction technology
Glossaries related  to the Army, Navy and Airforce
Police craftsmanship 
Public Administration(Establishment Code)
Financial Regulation
Land Administration
Information Technology(Sinhala and English)
Psychology
Law
Mathematics  
Physics
Statistics
Agriculture
Botany
History
Linguistics
Literature
Education
Twenty two (22) technical glossaries including Counselling and Economics were finalized and uploaded to the Department web site.
4.3.Conducting seminars and research on language usage and  technology and providing recommendations and tools
Under this programme, computer based games (Sinhala/Tamil) including 200 questions related to 10 different fields of the language were produced for improving the knowledge of language in a recreational way and uploaded to the web site. 
Information related  brand names in Sinhala and Tamil were gathered, letters were sent to 75 institutions to find the Sinhala and Tamil equivalents to them. Accordingly, 95 brand names were received from 25 institutions and work pertaining to 27 brand names of 05 institutions has been completed and handed over to those institutions.
Under the programme of uploading words in alphabetical order to the website, 5000 words  have been identified and computerized.
In order to find a solution to the problems caused to those learning Sinhala or Tamil as a second language, a research book was formulated to facilitate them  under the name of a “A hand book  to write official letters in Public Service” and it has been given to be printed.
While formulating a standard form in writing  the common names of all Sri Lankan districts, cities and villages in Sinhala, Tamil and English  is  another objective, the task  was not implemented as it was implemented by the Department of Survey with its  representation.
Programme on preparing Language plans
A workshop was held with the participation of 185 Department Officers to obtain  proposals for the preparation of a Language Plan on behalf of the Department with the objective of encouraging the Officers to work while the implementation of  Official Languages ​​Policy.
The above awareness programme which was implemented under provisions of the department, was held on 03.08.2015.
A Language plan was prepared in line with the proposal received. Accordingly, Departmental name boards, notice boards were prepared as proposed in the language plan and displayed in all three languages.
Attention of officers has been drawn to the fact that dealing with official documents should be in official languages.
Various instances of the preparation of  Language plans
Promotion of National and International Language Proficiency
Sinhala, Tamil and English and foreign  language courses are being conducted in a Language laboratory equipped with modern technology for those interested in  following national and international languages on half-yearly study courses.
During the year 2015, Sinhala, Tamil, English and foreign languages courses were  conducted successfully for 1500 students.
Similarly, implementing the programme for promoting bilingual knowledge by using e-learning distant mode of education methodology(for 1st level) and the establishment of computer based examination system to evaluate language proficiency(in collaboration with the Department of Examinations)were not implemented during 2015 and it has been proposed to commence them once the new language laboratory is opened.
Also, Certificate Awarding Ceremony in relation to the 2nd semester 2014, was held under the auspicious of Hon.Minister A. Mano Ganesan in 2015.
582 students were awarded certificates at the programme.
Performance as per the Action Plan
Department of Official Languages
Estimated cost
Actual Expenditure 
Printing Books and Language Text books likely to facilitate language proficiency and Conducting Language Proficiency Tests.	
Providing translation Services for Government and Semi Government institutions and Compiling of glossaries.	
Conducting research and seminars on language usage and technology 	
Promoting National and International Languages proficiency	
Modernization of institutional environment	
Implementing recommendations of the committee on language proficiency of public officers, appointed by the cabinet 
Developing and analyzing methodologies and regulations	
Development of Human resources	
Total	
Official Languages Commission and its Performance
Official Languages Commission
Introduction
The Official Languages Commission has been established under the provisions of the Official Languages Commission Act No 18 of 1991.
The Commission  consists of six members, appointed by His Excellency the President
One of them shall be nominated by the President to be the Chairman of the Commission.
The Commissioner of the Official Languages Department shall be the official secretary to the Commission.
The new chairman and the members have been  appointed with effect from 05th August 2014.
Vision
To be the organization empowered to ensure the implementation of the official languages policy by all organizations providing services to the public.
Mission
Providing for the bilingual needs of the public through reviewing, monitoring, educating and advising on implementing the official language policy.
Objectives:
To recommend principles of policy related to the use of the Official Languages and to monitor and supervise compliance with the provisions contained in Chapter IV of the Constitution.
Taking all necessary measures and implementing them to ensure the use of the languages referred to in Article 18 of the Constitution (hereinafter referred to as the “relevant languages”)in accordance with the spirit and intent of Chapter IV of the Constitution;
Promoting the evaluation of the Official Languages and recognizing, maintaining and taking forward their status; equality and right of usage.
In responding to any complaints received  conducting self investigations and also taking remedial action as provided for by the provisions of this Act.
Functions 
Initiating reviews of any regulations, directions or administrative practices, which affect or may affect, the status or use of one of the three languages.
Issuing or applying Researchers and policy statements that Commission considers necessary in relation to the status or application of particular languages.
Undertaking common educational activities including sponsoring or initiating publications or other media presentations considered suitable by the commission on the status or use of  languages concerned.
Purchasing or otherwise acquiring any movable or immovable asset and maintaining, leasing or renting or selling, mortgaging or otherwise dealing with. 
Taking necessary measures to attain the objectives of the commission by taking any other necessary or appropriate measures to exercise the powers of the commission.
Programmes Implemented by Official Languages Commission in 2015
5.1 Creating awareness among public officers
The objective of these programmes is to create awareness on the responsibility and legal background of public officers with regard to implementation of the Official Languages Policy in Government institutions.
Two methods are being followed up by Commission in implementing these programmes.
i.e. Conducting common awareness creation programmes and conducting awareness creation programmes for identified  groups of public officers.
Awareness creation programme among Deans and Secretaries of Universities in Western Province, with regard to the Official Languages Policy.
This awareness creation programme was organized after analyzing the complaints received by the Commission in the  previous years with regard to violation of the Official Languages Policy considering National Universities as special fields.
Accordingly, this workshop was held on 08.10.2015 at Central Bank Auditorium “Center for Banking Studies”, Rajagiriya.
All Universities and affiliated Institutions in the Western Province took part in this workshop.
Special matters discussed 
Official Languages Policy and its legal background
In accordance with the provisions of the circular no:04/2014 to implement the Official Languages Policy in Universities, a university student has the right to follow  his higher education in the language of his basic education
The due place for Official Languages must be given in administration of University
Awareness creation among heads of private hospitals with regard to the Official Languages Policy.
At present, the private sector provides various services for general public.
Of which the health sector is special.
It has been observed by the Commission that the general public has been greatly inconvenienced as most of the private hospitals deal with English language in rending their service. 
Because of that reason, an awareness creation programme with regard to the Official Languages Policy was held for leading private hospitals in the district of Colombo on 28.08.2015 at the auditorium of the Central Bank, “Center for Banking Studies”, Ragagiriya.
Officers from about 27 private hospitals took part in this programme. 
Officers from Private Medical Services Development Division- the regulatory institution of private hospitals of the Ministry of Health and the Chairman, representing the Association of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes also participated in this programme.
A basic awareness creation with regard to the Official Languages Policy was held, and subsequently a session for questions and discussions was held.  
The following matters were discussed here.
Obtaining the services of a translator in the case of Doctors lacking bilingual proficiency
Non-availability of trilingual announcements
Name boards, notice boards and information boards not being displayed in three languages
Lack of officers who are well versed in three languages
Difficulty in translating certain technical words and using them
Outcomes of the programmes
Following the programme, it was decided that the future activities should be carried forward by the commission.
Making necessary arrangements to issue recommendations via Private Health Services Regulatory Commission to prepare all boards displayed in private hospitals participated in the programme in three languages and make announcements in three languages within a time limit and monitoring the same.
Obtain​ing assistance from Private Medical Development Division of the Ministry of Health with regard to implementation of the recommendations aforesaid.
03.Awareness creation programme among the officers of Colombo Municipal Council
An awareness programme under the awareness programme of creating awareness among field officers in the government institutions located in bilingual administrative areas under the instruction of the Hon. Minister of National Dialogues, was held for officers of Colombo MMC and field officers of affiliated institutions on 2015.11.30 at the auditorium of the Department of Training, MMC Colombo. 
After the awareness programme on the official language policy, a discussion with regard to the problems faced by officers when implementing the Official Languages Policy and possible remedies was held.
5.2 Language Audits
Reviewing with regard to implementation of the Official Languages Policy in institution audited up to 2014
Recommendations have been given by the commission in relation to the institutions subjected to audit up to 2014.
Heads of relevant institutions will report the commission with regard to implementation of these recommendations.
The objectives of language audits are implementing, examining and reviewing the recommendations. 
The follow up language audits conducted in 2015 are as follows
Divisional Secretariats
Deltota 
Akurana
Udapalatha
Ambangangakorale 
Ukuwela
Hanguranketha
Kotmale
Ambagamuwa
Udunuwara
Doluwa
Gangaihalakorale
Negambo
Jaffna 
Matale
Badulla
Passara
Haliela 	
Ella
Police Stations
Kotmale	
Negambo
Auditing of unaudited Government institutions in Bilingual Administrative Divisions
Divisional Secretariats
Hambantota
Kataragama	
Thanamalwila
Police Stations
Kandy
Alawathugoda 
Ukuwela
Rattota
Hanguranketha
Jaffna
Hambantota 
Kataragama 
Thanamalwila 
Badulla
Passara
Hospitals
General Hospital-Kandy
Teaching Hospital-Peradeniya
District Hospital-Matale
Divisional Medical Development Unit–Ukuwela 
Base Hospital-Rikillagaskada
Health Medical Officer’s Office–Ambagamuwa
Institutions
Seegiriya World Heritage 
University of Colombo
University of Jaffna
Mahinda Rajapaksha International Airport of Mattala
5.3. Printed Media Advertisements
Advertisements are published in main media by the Commission focusing on important days and occasions commemorated by Sri Lankans.
Two advertisements, depicting the message of importance of language rights and the Official Languages Policy, together with greetings have been published in 2015.
01. Islandwide awareness creation programme for general pubic 
Printed media notices
There are two objectives in publishing printed media advertisements.
One objective is to create an awareness on language rights among general public and thereby create an interest towards a bilingual public service.
Creating an awareness on the legal responsibility of public servants in providing a bilingual public service could be said as the other objective of this programme.
These advertisements are published in both languages focusing on main days of religious, cultural and national significance of Sri Lankans.
These messages will include a greeting along with messages with regard to the language rights of people and the responsibilities of public officers.
Accordingly, the advertisements published in 2015 have been given below.
Greeting pertaining to Deepawali festival
Greeting pertaining to Poson Festival
5.4. Investigation of complaints
Investigating complaints with regard to violation of language rights is a primary task of the Commission.
Accordingly, of the 91 complaints received by Commission in 2015,46 complaints have been resolved.
5.5. Establishing and promoting language circles in school level and implementing school programmes via them.
The attention of the Commission was drawn towards the importance of conducting programmes for school children based on the experiences got from school debates and speech contests organized by the commission in 2013 and 2014.
As a future course of action of the above development, a decision was taken to establish language promotion circles in schools.
Steps were taken by Official Languages Commission to establish language circles with a long term objective of generating a trilingual environment in Sri Lanka through developing knowledge, attitudes and skills of school children with regard to the Official Languages Policy.
Under the above programme, the Official Languages Commission expects to establish language circles in all the schools located Island wide.
Accordingly, it has been decided to conduct all activities taking place within schools, including displaying of main name board, in both languages via language circles. 
The objective of establishing language circles in schools is to direct the student society towards the aim of generating one Sri Lankan Nation twined by  Bilingualism, to generate the attitudes and interest in student society towards using trilingual usage and to effect trilingual usage in all audible, visual, readable things in the school and also to develop the ability to convert the future society into a trilingual society.
The language circle consists of a panel which includes student representing each  class, the principal and teachers.  
The activity identified by language circle is to display all boards including the school main board in three languages,
Using Sinhala, Tamil and English in all the activities carried out in the school, conducting trilingual competitions and awarding prizes and certificates to the winners,
Displaying trilingual alphabets  in schools, building words and sentences on daily, weekly and monthly basis and conducting programmes to encourage winners by giving points,
Organizing programmes to exchange  cultural and social friendship with fellowship schools which follow other mediums of instruction,
Implementing trilingual programmes in national festivals,
Providing assistance to people in the neighbourhood with regards to their language needs and many other activities.
Organizing relevant tasks to establish language circles in collaboration with the Commission of Official languages and Ministry of Education.
A circular in this regard has been issued to schools by the Ministry of Education.
In accordance with that circular, by now certain schools have  submitted their Annual Action Plan to the Commission.
Performance as per the Action Plan
Financial Progress of Official Languages Commission
Estimated cost
Actual Expenditure
Briefing universities and Higher Educational Institutes. 	
Awareness programme for the Hospital Staff.	
Reviewing random samples with regard to implementation of the Official Languages Policy in institutions audited up to 2014.	
Auditing of unaudited Government institutions located in Bilingual Administrative Divisions			
Investigating complaints received with regard to violation of the Official Languages Policy.	
Establishing language circles in school level and implementing programmes via them.	
Islandwide awareness programme for general public(Printed Media Advertisements)	
Social Integration week	
Awareness programme for Government officers		
National Institute of Language Education and Training and its Performance
National Institute of Language Education and Training
Introduction
National Institute of Language Education and Training was established under the provision of the National Institute of Language Education and Training Act No 26 of 2007 as a Statutory Body under the Ministry of National Languages and Social Integration with the objective of implementing the Trilingual policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
From 1st of November 2007, this Institute has been functioning being affiliated to the Ministry of Constitutional Affairs and National Integration at no:310, Galle Road, Colombo 3.
With effect from 25th of April 2010, this Ministry was renamed as the Ministry of National Languages and Social Integration and functioned under the ministry concerned.
With effect from 18th of January 2015, the Institute had been functioning under the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Democratic Governance.
With effect from 21st September 2015,the Institute has been functioning under the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogues and Official languages.
At present, this institute is  functioning at No:40, Buthgamuwa road, Rajagiriya.
At present, this institution, has expanded its scope, implements a number of training courses island wide.
Of them the following are the key programmes.
Part-time Second Languages Courses for Public Officers(Level I/Level II/Level III) 
12–Day short-term non-residential training courses for public officers
Teacher Training Courses
Feedback and Monitoring Programmes for Resource Persons
Diploma courses on Translation Studies (Part-time/Full Time) 
Basic Courses on Translation (Residential 10 days)
Spoken Sinhala/Tamil language training courses under Language Circles National  Programme
Short term Second Languages Training Courses for newly recruited government officers(Doctors, Administrative Officers and Other Professionals)
Several courses organized by the Institute are held at the training center located at Galewatta in Agalawatta.
The training center, which is situated in an attractive location, consists of a lecture hall with room  for about 250 trainees at a time, group discussion facilities for residential training for about 60 persons  and a Library.
While the service of a pool of expert resource persons is obtained in conducting the above island wide programmes, the staff of the Institute has been working with a sense of dedication.
Vision
Enhancing peace and co-existence among the people of Sri Lanka through training of national languages.
Mission
Functioning as the strategic centre for providing trilingual knowledge for language education and training with  the purpose of implementing the Official Language Policy.
Objectives 
Generating knowledgeable  translators and interpreters of Sinhala, Tamil and English languages to be recruited in the National Translators' and Interpreters' Service established by  written law.
Generating suitable and skilful teachers to train teachers of Sinhala, Tamil and English Translators and Interpreters.
Generating public officers well versed in three languages to render an efficient  service to the general public. 
Functions of the Institution
Providing continuous  training in the three languages to those persons who wish to acquire such knowledge to be able to teach Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.
Conducting research and studies on issues about language training with the objective of utilising the results of studies and researches to conduct the activities of the Institution effeciently. 
Providing language training and education to suitable persons and awarding certificates and diplomas to those who successfully complete such language training and education.
Establishing a board of trained  personnel to continue language studies.
Setting up of a depository of details related to languages.
Conducting special language training courses in Sinhala,Tamil and English languages for persons belonging to special categories such as interpreters, translators and stenographers. 
Various Training Courses conducted by the National Institute of Language Education and Training in the year 2015
6.1. Part-time training courses for public officers
In order to empower the public officers in the two official languages, island wide part-time Language training programmes are implemented by the National Institute of Language Education and Training.
These programmes are organized at service stations level and conducted in such government institutions as Government Departments, Divisional Secretariats and Police Stations covering a duration of 4 to 6 hours per week, without causing disturbance to official duties of the participants.
While these Sinhala and Tamil Training Programmes are divided into four categories as level I, II,III and Level IV,the time durations of them are 250 hours,200 hours,150 hours and 100 hours respectively.
The objective of this programme is to improve the efficiency of the public service by enhancing the public officers'second language proficiency and facilitate the effective implementation of Official Language Policy.
The details of the part-time language training programmes conducted for public officers in the year 2015 are as follows.
Classes approved for 2015
Leve l					
Leve l1
Leve l1		
Level III		
Level III		
Total					
Accordingly, arrangements were made to provide training for around 5456 public officers through 186 classes by the Institute in the year 2015.
Level l		
Level l	
Level l1
Level l1
Level III
Level III	
Total
6.2. 12 day Non-residential Tamil Language Training Courses for Public Officers
12-day Short Term Language Training Courses are to be organized by the National Institute of Language Education and Training for public officers who are unable to attend the part-time language training programmes.
This 12-day Short Term Language Training programme can be identified as a unique effort of the Institute to cultivate humane and pro-coexistence feelings in public officers and thereby to bring about cultural and social integration.
The officers participating in the classes should continuously attend the classes for 12 days and on completion of the course, certificates are awarded based on the result of a written and oral test.
The details of the 12-day non residential language training programmes conducted for public officers are as follows.
Health	Medical officers training center, Kopay	
June 10-21
University of Vavuniya
June 11-22	
Management development centre
June 11-22
Sabaragamuwa provincial centre	
June 16-27	
Screed Heart college, Rajagiriya	
July 16-27
Divisional Secretariat Kelaniya	
July 21-Aug 01
Divisional Secretariat Tangalla	
Sep 11- 22	
Sabaragamuwa provincial centre	
Oct 15-26	
Sirihandha college, Rajagiriya	
Oct 21- Nov 01	
Divisional Secretariat Batticaloa	
Oct 23 Nov 03
Divisional	Secretariat Nochchiyagam	
Oct 23 Nov 03
Divisional	Secretariat Bamunakotuwa	
Nov 08-19
Divisional	Secretariat Galgamuwa	
Nov 08-19	
Sabaragamuwa Provincial centre	
Nov 9-20	
Divisional Secretariat Thihagoda	
Nov 09- 20	
Gamunu	Regiment School, Diyatalawa	
Nov 11 - 21	
Divisional Secretariat Kalutara	
Nov 14-25
Divisional Secretariat Uhana	
Nov 16-27	
Divisional Secretariat Ambalantota	
Nov 16-27
District Secretariat Monaragala	
Nov 16-27	
District Secretariat Trincomalee	
Nov 18-29	
Divisional	Secretariat Devinuwara	
Nov 21-Dec 02
Divisional Secretariat Okwala	
Nov 23-Dec 04	
Divisional	Secretariat Hambantota	
Nov 25 -Dec 06	
Divisional	Secretariat Yatinuwara	
Nov 26 Dec 07	
Divisional Secretariat Badalkumbura	
Dec 01- 11	
Divisional	Secretariat Rajanganaya	
Dec 06-17	
Divisional	Secretariat Meerigama	
Dec 07 - 17	
Divisional	Secretariat Thanamalwila	
Dec 08- 19	
Divisional Secretariat Thissamaharama	
Dec 08-19
Divisional	Secretariat Seethawaka	
Nov 26 Dec 11	
Daham medura Ampara	
Dec 02-13
6.3 Teacher Training Programmes
Only those who participate in the 5-day residential Teacher Training Programmes conducted by the Institute and get through the relevant test, are eligible to teach in the island wide teacher training programmes conducted by the institute. 
While these teachers employ the  heartly-fused teaching learning Process in teaching, Institution conducts provincial level review and supervisory training study courses meant for them.
The objectives of these programmes are to teach the second language to the public officers for the purpose of implementation of the Official Language Policy and to produce a pool of teachers capable of providing knowledge to the general public to acquire language proficiency,through the National Movement of Language Associations.
In 2015, 02 teacher training programmes were conducted as income generating programmes and 68 teachers have been trained under the programme.
6.4.Progress Review and supervision training programmes for teachers
Agalawattta	Training Centre
Feb 12, 13
92 (no of groups 02)	
Agalawattta	Training Centre
March 08,09	
86 (no of groups 02)	
Agalawattta	Training Centre
March 18 -20
Agalawattta Training Cente
June 29,30
Agalawattta Training Centre
September 29,30	
86 (no of groups 2)	
Agalawattta Training Centre
Oct 10,11	
92 (no of groups 2)	
6.5.Planning and Development of Curriculums
Programme for Preparation of the syllabus for Step I and II of the 60-hour Tamil language programmes intended for the National Integration Coordination officers recruited and a total of around 05 such programmes were conducted in 2015.
Agalawattta Training Centre
Feb. 06-08
Agalawattta Training Centre
April 03,04
Agalawattta Training Centre
June 01-05	
Agalawattta Training Centre
Aug 22,23	
Office in Colombo
1st week of October onwards	
6.6.Language Training Programme for Civil Society
150-hour Sinhala/Tamil language training programme
A Language Training Programme for Civil Society was initiated in 2012.
The 150-hour course consisting of (100 hours of oral and 50 hours of written training),these programmes were  conducted island wide.
The objective of the porgramme was to enhance the social integration through providing the general public with Sinhala and Tamil language knowledge.
Details of the classes conducted for Language Associations in 2015 are as follows.
classes for which approval was given in 2015
Accordingly, the steps were taken by the institute to give approval for conducting 296 classes for training 8880 participants.
Classes commenced in 2015
Accordingly,144 classes were commenced in 2015 for 5598 participants.
Classes completed as at 31.12.2015
Sinhala
Tamil	
Total	
Classes commenced in 2015 and not duly completed
Sinhala	
Tamil	
Total	
According to the above table,only 04 classes were not held in 2015.
6.7. 12-day non residential Sinhala/Tamil language training programmes conducted under the Language Associations National Movement for students who have completed the A/L Examination
In 2015, Islandwide programmes were conducted by the institute for students who had completed G.C.E. (A/L) examination.
Accordingly, around 2232 participants were trained under the programme through about 30 language training programmes covering the entire island.  
Nuwara-Eliya
Ambagamuwa disrict secatariat 	
Tamil
Ratnapura
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Center
Tamil	
Kegalle	
Wendala temple, Karawanella.	
Tamil
Kalutara
Welipenna Sanasa society
Tamil	
Kalutara
Social care institute,Beruwala	
Sinhala	
Galle	
Haburugala Community center
Tamil		
Mullaitivu	
Secretariat Mullativu
Sinhala
Jaffana	
Nelli Adi Central college
Sinhala	
Jaffna
Kokkuwil Hindu College
Sinhala	
Mannar	
English Training center
Sinhala	
Killinochchi
District Secretariat Killinochchi
Sinhala	
Vavuniya
Gamini Vidyalaya
Sinhala	
Gampaha
Kaleliya Adarsha Kanishta Vidyalaya	
Tamil	
Colombo
Navinna Annonyadhara Samithi hall, Maharagama
Tamil	
Hambantota
Girihada Raja Maha Viharaya, Ambalantota
Tamil	
Matara
Divisional secretariat
Tamil	
Kandy
Sri Wishudharamaya, Gampola
Tamil
Badulla
Sri Uththararamaya, Passara	
Tamil
Putttalam
Divisional secretariat, Mahawewa
Tamil	
Monaragala
Bakinigahawela Muslim Maha Vidyalaya
Sinhala	
Monaragala
Youth service center Monaragala	
Tamil	
Monaragala
Divisional secretariat, Monaragala
Tamil	
Kurunegala
Divisional secretariat, Mallawapitiya
Tamil	
Matale
Urban Council hall
Tamil	
Ampara
Divisional secretariat, Karativu
Sinhala	
Ampara
Divisional secretariat, Ampara	
Tamil
Batticaloa
Divisional secretariat, Batticaloa
Sinhala	
Anuradhapura
Divisional secretariat, Palagala
Tamil	
Polonnaruwa	
Divisional secretariat, Elahera	
Kalutara
Kamburawala Maha Vidyalaya	
6.8.Residential Tamil Language Training Programme for National Integration Promotion Officers.
A 60-day Tamil language training programmeis conducted by the Institute for the newly recruited National Integration Promotion Officers.
This programme is conducted for 06 months at the rate of 10 hours per month at the Agalawatta Training Centre.
The Objective of the programme is enhancing the efficiency of the public service by improving the second language competency of the public officers.
Agalawattta Training Centre
(July 17 - 26)	
Agalawattta Training Centre 
(Aug 24 - Sep 03)
Agalawattta Training  Centre
(Nov 05 - 14))
Agalawattta Training Centre 
(Nov. 23 - Dec 4)	
Agalawattta Training Centre
(Dec 4 -15)
6.9. Training and skills development programmes for the staff of the Institute
Divers programmes are conducted by the National Institute of Language Education and Training to develop the skills of  its staff.
While Officers are sent to other institutions in order to provide them with opportunities for training, a programme was implemented including all the officers of the staff.
This programme provides the staff with the career guidance and assistance necessary for personality development. 
6.10. fee levying study courses 
Tamil language training programme for doctors
In compliance with a request made by the department of health,a 11-day residential second language training programme was conducted for the medical doctors engaged in internship training.
While the objective of this programme is to deliver an efficient and a cordial service to the general public, the total cost of this programme was  borne by the Ministry of Health. 
During 2015, 07 programmes of this nature were planned to be conducted.
Agalawatta training centre
Feb 20- March 02
Agalawatta training centre
May 26 - June 05	
Agalawatta training center	
June 16- 27	
Agalawatta training centre
July 4- 14	
Agalawatta training centre
Aug 4- 14	
Agalawatta training center
Sep 4- 14	
Agalawatta training centre
Sep 15 - 25	
02. Short-term training programmes for Government/Semi-Government institutions
08 Short-term training programmes for government/semi-government institutions were planned to be conducted in the year 2015 
While the costs of these programmes are borne by the respective institutions,the objective of this programme is to deliver a more efficient service to the general public by providing the public officers with the language training.
In 2015, 08 programmes of this nature were conducted for army officers.
Tamil	
Jaffna	
April 27 - May 8		
Mullaitivu			
April 27-May 8		
Vavuniya			
April 27-May 8	
Killinochchi			
April 27-May 8		
Kandy	
November 5-14		
Hambantota			
November 5-14	
Panagoda			
November 5-14
Welikanda			
November 5-14	
Total	
Summary of the programmes conducted in 2015
1 Part-time Training programmes conducted for public officers
Level I	
Level II	
Level III	
Total	
Language training programmes for the general public
Sinhala	
Tamil	
Total	
12-day non-residential language training programmes for public officers
No of programmes 	
Progress Review programmes for teachers 	
Language training programmes for doctors	
Language training programme for National Integration Coordination Officers
Teacher training programmes on Sinhala/Tamil languages	
Language training programmes for Army officers	
Language training programme for nurses
Communication skills development programme
Awareness programmes
Language training programmes students who have completed  G.C.E.(A/L) examination
Planning and Development of Curriculums	
03 sessions  on Planning of curriculums
Performance as per the Action Plan
Financial Progress of National Institute of Language Education and Training
Estimated Cost
Actual Expenditure
Part-time Training programmes conducted for public officers	
12-day non-residential language training programmes for public officers	
Progress Review and Monitoring programmes for teachers	
Training programmes for the staff of the Institute	
10-day Tamil language training programme for the National Integration Coordination Officers		
Acquisition of capital assets		
Communication skills development programme		
Planning and Development of Curriculums		
Training programmes for Army officers		
Awareness programmes		
Programmes conducted for doctors	
17 day non- residential Tamil language training programme for newly recruited nurses	
150 hour Sinhala/Tamil language training programme for the general public	
14 12-day non-residential Sinhala/Tamil language training programmes for students who have completed A/L examination was conducted under the Language Associations National Movement	
Total	
07. National Secretariat for Non-Governmental Organizations
Introduction
Mission
Coordinating the resources and the activities of NGO’s within the National Policy Framework and make them contribute as partners towards the process of development of the country.
Objectives
Ensuring that resources mobilized from legally recognized NGOs are used in the interest of the people within the framework of law and policy.
Creating a conducive environment for National and International communities [Civil Societies] to contribute towards developmental activities voluntarily for the betterment of affected parties.
Strategy 
Accepting the NGOs as responsive service providers to beneficiaries with the intervention and supervision of the government
Main divisions of the NGO Secretariat
All functions of the Secretariat for NGOs have been organized under the following divisions in order to achieve the above objectives.
1. Division of registration of NGOs and Investigation  	
2. Division of monitoring and supervision 
3. Facilitation and service providing Division 	
4. Administration Division
08. Foreign Funded Projects under the Ministry
08.1. Facilitation for Social Cohesion and Transformation Projects 
Introduction
Facilitating Initiatives for Social Cohesion and Transformation Project is implemented by the Development Assistant Institute of Germany on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development in collaboration with the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages in Sri Lanka.
The Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages functions as the Sri Lankan partner of the project.
Facilitating Initiatives for Social Cohesion and Transformation Project assists the Government of Sri Lanka by supporting the development and implementation of a policy framework for social integration and inclusive citizen participation among state and civil society activists.
At the national level: Facilitation Project on Social Transformation and Integration works with the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages and the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils for social transformation and integration projects. 
At the local level: Facilitation Project on Social Transformation and Integration conducts its activities in 5 pilot districts namely Ampara, Badulla, Galle, Mullaitivu and Puttlam in collaboration with the Provincial Councils, District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats and Pradeshiya Sabha Offices and selected Community-Based Organizations.
The new and the final phase of Facilitation Project on Social Transformation and Integration which was to be completed in mid March 2017, commenced  in January 2014.
The objective of this phase is to collaborate with “Government and Non-governmental Agencies" and build social integration by building key elements for social integration.
The results to be achieved by the above steps:	
Enhancing the Knowledge on Social Integration. 
Developing the skills of Government and Non-government agencies  engaged in social integration.
Filing new trends and spreading them all over the country to promote social cohesion based on regional needs.
Facilitation Project on Social Transformation and Integration  functions  under four basic sectors in order to achieve the above results.
Implementation of the national policy mechanism in relation to social integration at National and District Level
Implementation of the national policy mechanism at Local Government and Community Level 
Promoting Social Integration through  arts and culture
Promoting Social Integration through Education and innovation
8.2 Strengthening enforcement of Law, access to Justice and Social Integration.
Introduction
The Project for enforcement of law, access to justice and social integration was initiated based on the experience gathered from i and ii phases of "equal access to justice project."
Facilitating relevant local-level processes and mechanisms aimed at improving service delivery systems, particularly in the areas of legal aid, prison administration and access to documentation are done by this  Project on equal access to justice.
This project has established a casual level mechanism to create a connected approach and thereby access justice-oriented Institutions.
Based on these positive results, the program for strengthening law enforcement, equitable access to justice and social cohesion has been built by structuring and improving some of these coordinating units, leading to more radical reforms in justice.
By strengthening the institutional capabilities of planning in the relevant field, the programs focus on the recommendations of the Lessons Learned and Reconciliation Commission as well as the government's ability to implement the National Policy Framework for Social Integration.
This programme is implemented nationally  by the Ministry of National Coexistence, Dialogue and Official Languages and  Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Child Development and Women’s Affairs.
8.2.1 Based on the facts transpired on the evaluation of documentation needs conducted in 2013, conducting mobile services on documentation in plantation sector. 
Mobile services were conducted in the DS Divisions of Ayagama, Palmadulla and Kiri Ella in Ratnapura District, Hangurankethe and Walapone in N’Eliya District and Hali Ella in Badulla district.
Nearly 3000 legal documents including Birth Certificates, Marriage Certificates, Death Certificates, police Reports were issued to beneficiaries in this mobile service.
8.2.2. Providing necessary assistance to determine the linguistic gaps in the selected multi-ethnic hierarchical geographical locations and key service  providing sectors.
Determining the linguistic gaps targeting police, local government authorities and hospitals in 54 bilingual DS Division is expected to be commenced.
While Center for Policy Alternatives is contracted to implement this activity, Preparation of Questionnaires, instructions and training of enumerators for the pilot survey have been  completed.
Relevant data collection for the survey  will take place in January 2016.
8.2.3. Providing necessary assistance for the Ministry of Education in relation to the Teacher Exchange programme (Senehasaka Thaksalawa)
The first programme of  the “Senehasakla Thaksalawa” programmes  was conducted for Eighty (80) Teachers belonging to in Five(05) educational  zones in Anuradhapura.
8.2.4. Procurement of equipment for Language Labs of department of Official languages and National Institute of Language Education and Training.
Equipment were provided to two language labs located at Department of Official Languages and National Institute of Language Education and Training as well.
8.2.5. Participating in community activities to promote social cohesion and to maintain a sustainable coordination with empowered women leaders, through meetings and lectures at district level based on needs.
Follow-up programmes were organized in Killinochchi and Monaragala districts in collaboration  with the trained women leaders and the SI officers based in the respective GA offices.
An awareness programme on underage marriages had been organized  by Women leaders in Killinochchi 
Entrepreneurship training programme on sewing for women in selected DS Divisions was conducted.
8.2.6. Promoting Social Integration through Volunteerism
The objectives of the selected volunteers are assisting people of respective District/Divisional Secratarits, assisting the staff to implement their day to day duties efficiently and also assiting to find remedial measures to overcome barriers in people obtaining the services in the language of  their choice. 
Of the 354 applications received in this regard, 240 volunteers were selected and they took part in the relevant orientation programme.
8.2.7. Programme on "Representation of younger society in bringing about change in the process of social integration"
Whilst preparing a  documentary on "How could the volunteers direct their contributions towards avoiding the linguistic gap" is a part of this programme, the Department of Official Languages has already completed preparing the script of the documentary.
British Council has been selected by the UNDP to implement the programme on "Youth are the representatives of bringing about changes in social integration and transformation." 
a. Whilst this Project provides the necessary technical input, it also shares experience and lessons learnt from similar previous programmes.
b. The first programme of it  was conducted  for 40 participants at Sarvodaya Batticaloa.
8.2.8. Programme on "young journalists as changing agents of  social integration"
The programme on “Media dialogue to Promote Coexistence” was conducted with the collaboration of  the Ministry of Mass Media and Sri Lanka Media Training Institute.
The Programme was conducted in Negombo for 59 Journalists attached to print/electronic/social/web media of private and state sectors.
8.2.9. Prevention of drug addiction, formation of “awareness groups” as change agents at community level to alert youth on drugs
Programme on prevention of drugs was held  in Killinochchi in which  59 youths participated. 
Women leaders, trained by the "Empowerment of Women Programme" conducted in 2014, initiated this programme with the assistance of Social integration officers of Provincial office in Killinochchi.
09. Monetary Allocations
Financial Progress up to 2015.12.31
Head - Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Programme-Operational Activities
Project number and name- Ministry office 
As at 2015/12/31 	
Recurrent Expenditure	
Personnel Emoluments	
Travelling expenses	
supplies	
Maintenance expenditure	
Services	
Capital Expenditure	
Rehabilitation of capital assets	
Acquisition of capital assets		
Total	
Head - Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Programme-01 Operational Activities
Project number and name -02. Administration and Establishment Services
As at 2015.12.31
Recurrent Expenditure	
Personnel Emoluments			
Travelling expenses	
supplies
Maintenance expenditure	
Services	
Transfers
Capital Expenditure	
Rehabilitation and uplifting of capital assets 	
Acquisition of capital assets	
Capacity building	
Transfers	
Total	
Head- 01 Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages
Programme - 01 Operational Activities
Project number and name -03 
Administration and Establishment Services as at 31/12/2015
Recurrent Expenditure	
Personnel Emoluments			
Travelling expenses	
supplies
Maintenance expenditure	
Services	
Transfers	
Capital Expenditure	
Rehabilitation and uplifting of capital assets	
Acquisition	of capital assets	
Capacity building	
Investments 		
Total	
10. Advance Accounts
Advance Account actual amount against the prescribed limits
Operation of the Advance Account as at 31.12.2015 is as follows.
11.Review
It is with great pleasure that I declare that the officers of the Ministry have worked with utmost dedication to fulfil the aspirations of the Ministry as a whole.
The support extended by the staff of the Ministry,the institutions affiliated to the Ministry and the project officers are also appreciated.
Secretary
Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Language
Home
NEWS and EVENTS
Events Calendar	
See by year
See by month
See by week
See Today
Search
Jump to month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Jump to month
Tuesday, 01 August 2017
Friday, 11 August 2017
Saturday, 12 August 2017
Sunday, 13 August 2017
Monday, 14 August 2017
Tuesday, 15 August 2017
Wednesday, 16 August 2017
Thursday, 17 August 2017
Friday, 18 August 2017
Saturday, 19 August 2017
Sunday, 20 August 2017
Monday, 21 August 2017
Tuesday, 22 August 2017
Wednesday, 23 August 2017
Thursday, 24 August 2017
Friday, 25 August 2017
Saturday, 26 August 2017
Sunday, 27 August 2017
Monday, 28 August 2017
Tuesday, 29 August 2017
Wednesday, 30 August 2017
Thursday, 31 August 2017
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
Choose a city
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER OF EXCISE   
City : 
Kurunegala
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Kurunegala
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Kuliyapitiya
Phone : 
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE 
City : 
Chilaw
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Chilaw
Phone : 
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
From : 
Choose source
Department of Excise
or 
To :
Choose destination
Department of Excise
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Officer in charge of Excise
Superintended of Excise
or
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
Choose a city
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City :
Mirigama
Officer in charge of Excise
Address :
EXCISE STATION
Address : 
City :
Meegoda
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE 
City : 
Gampaha
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Gampaha
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Negombo
Phone : 
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
-- Choose a city --
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Ja-ela
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Kirindiwela
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EXCISE
(WESTERN PROVINCE 2 )
City : 
Kalutara
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Aluthgama
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Matugama
Phone : 
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
Choose a city
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Panadura
Phone : 
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE
City : 
Aluthgama
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Horana
Phone : 
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER OF EXCISE
City : 
Kandy
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Kandy
Phone : 
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
-- Choose a city --
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Mahawa
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Gampola
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Matale
Phone : 
Phone : 
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE 
City : 
Nuwara - Eliya
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Nuwara - Eliya
Phone : 
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
Choose a city
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Ampara
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Kalmunai
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Nuwara - Eliya
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Hatton
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Elpitiya
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
-- Choose a city --
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER OF EXCISE   
City : 
Galle
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City :
Galle
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Matara
Phone : 
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE 
City : 
Hambantota
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Tangalla
Phone : 
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
-- Choose a city --
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER OF EXCISE   
City : 
Jaffna
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Jaffna
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Chankanai
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
Address : 
SRI JAYAWARDANA PURA
City : 
Battaramulla
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Point - Pedro
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
-- Choose a city --
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Mannar
Phone : 
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE
City : 
Vauniya
Phone : 
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE 
City : 
Batticaloa
Phone : 
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Batticaloa
Phone : 
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER OF EXCISE
City : 
Trincomalee
Phone : 
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
DOWNLOADS
ANNUAL REPORTS
Annual Reports
Annual Report 2005
Annual Report 2006
Annual Report 2007
Annual Report 2008
Annual Report 2009
Annual Report 2010
Annual Report 2011
Annual Report 2012
Annual Report 2013
Annual Report 2014
Annual Report 2015
Home
DOWNLOADS
APPLICATION FORMATS
Application Formats
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM FOR ISSUE OF LIQUOR LICENSE
Home
NEWS and EVENTS
Events Calendar	
See by year
See by month
See by week
See Today
Search
Jump to month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Jump to month
16 August 2017
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
Choose a city
Department of Excise
Phone : 
Phone : 
Fax : 
Web Site :  
http://www.excise.gov.lk 
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPDT.OF EXCISE (NARCOTIC)
Address : 
D.R.WIJEWARDANA MAWATHA
City : 
Colombo 10
Phone : 
Assistant Commissioner of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF EXCISE
Address : 
D.R.WIJEWARDANA MAWATHA 
City : 
Colombo 10
Phone : 
+942329329
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Padukka
Phone : 
+942750118
Officer in charge of Excise
Address : 
EXCISE STATION
City : 
Kesbewa
Phone :
+942704260
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
ABOUT US
CADRE
Approved Cadre			
Our Staff as at 30-11-2009
Position
Number
Commissioner General of Excise – S.L.A.S.
Commissioner of Excise – Revenue – S.L.A.S.
Commissioner of Excise – Administration and Human Resources – S.L.A.S.
Commissioner of Excise – Finance – S.L.A.S.
Deputy Commissioner of Excise (Administration) – S.L.A.S.
Deputy Commissioner of Excise (Finance)
Deputy Commissioner of Excise (Internal Audit)  – S.L.Ac.S.
Assistant Commissioner of Excise - Departmental
Superintendent of Excise
Administrative Officer
Officer in charge
Inspector
Government Management Assistant
Budget Assistant
Sergeant Major
Sergeant
Guard / Corporal
Driver Grade (11)
Grade (1)
Circuit Bungalow Caretaker
Home
Department of Excise Sri Lanka
Applying for Annual Training Courses 
Email :
Telephone Number :
Name :
Designation :
Appoint Date :
Working Place :
First Appoinment Date and Designation :
Applying courses
(Ordered by preference)
Dates
I request to be selected to any one of the courses mentioned above. 
I certify that I will attend continuously to the selected course and that I do not have any judiciary or obligatory duties during those days.
If I am unable to participate the selected course without an accepted medical certificate I agree to the course fees being deducted from my salary.
If the Image is not clear click on it for a new image	
Verification Code
Home
COMPLAINTS
Complaint Form
Department of Excise
Province:
Select Province
Central
Eastern
North Central
North Western
Northern
Sabaragamuwa
Southern
Uva
Western
District:
Select District
DS Division:
Select DS Division
Offence:
Select Offence
Unlawfully distill spirits. 
Unlawfully sale of spirits 
Unlawfully sale of arrack
Unlawfully sale of liquor.
Unlawfully position of distilled spirits (Over than 4 ltrs.)
Unlawfully position of distilled spirits (Less than 04 ltrs.)
Unlawfully bottling of liquor/arrack.
Unlawfully position of Heroin.
Unlawfully sale and position of Heroin.
Unlawfully sale of Heroin.
Unlawfully sale of Cannabis.
Unlawfully sale and position of Cannabis.
Other offences.
Your E-Mail:
Complaint:
Verification Code:
Home
CONTACTS
CONTACT DETAILS
Contact Details
Excise Department of Sri Lanka
Telephone: 
9411-2300166, 
9411-2300171,
9411-3888023
Fax: 
9411-2877890
Email: 
excisen@slt.lk
Commissioner General of Excise
Name
A. Bodaragama
Telephone
Fax
Commissioners of Excise
Home
BRANCHES
BRANCHES
Filter:
Go
Reset
Choose a city
Superintended of Excise
Address :
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE
City :
Matale
Phone :
+94(066) 2233542
Officer in charge of Excise
Address:
EXCISE STATION
City :
Wellawaya
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE
City : 
Monaragala
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE
City : 
Ja-ela
Superintended of Excise
Address : 
OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF EXCISE
City : 
Point - Pedro
Start
Prev
Next
End
Get directions
Home
MEDIA GALLERY
PHOTO GALLERY
PHOTO GALLERY
Home
LICENSE DETAILS
Types of Licenses
Types of Liquor Licenses
Licenses Category
License to manufacture Malt Liquor
License to manufacture Foreign Spirits locally
License to manufacture, milk punch and or Wine
License to manufacture country made foreign spirits from Spirits distilled from the coconut or any of its products other than Toddy.
Wholesale License
Retail License
Beer and Porter License
Hotel License
Hotel Bar License
Entertainment Bar License
Railway Refreshment Room License
Restaurant License
Rest House License
Club License
Occasional License
Supplementary Licenses to extend the hours of sale.
Auctioneer’s License
Rectified Spirits License
Medicated Wine License
Special License
Beer, Ale, Stout Wine License for retail sale.
Beer, Ale, Stout Wine License for consumption in the  premises.
Manufacturing Licenses
License to tap, draw and manufacture fermented, unfermented sweet toddy.
Home
DOWNLOADS
NOTIFICATIONS
Notifications			
Excise Notification No. 902
Closing dates of the Liquer shops
Home
ABOUT US
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE
Click on the image to view complete organization structure in a new window.
Home
ABOUT US
OVERVIEW
VISION
Building of a healthy society in Sri Lanka, which is free from illicit liquor and narcotics drugs.
MISSION
The mission of the Department of Excise has been broadly identified as the "efficient and effective administration of the Liquor and the Tobacco industry in Sri Lanka through the collection of revenue and prevention of illicit manufacture and sale of such products, for development and welfare of the society, and the enforcement of the Poisons, Opium  and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance for the social protection of Sri Lanka."
OBJECTIVES
The collection and protection of revenue from Liquor and Tobacco.
The enforcement of the Excise Ordinance and the Tobacco Tax Act.
The enforcement of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance.
Home
SITE MAP
SITE MAP
HOME
ABOUT US
OVERVIEW
FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT
SPECIAL UNITS
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
CADRE
BRANCHES
LICENSE DETAILS
MEDIA GALLERY
PHOTO GALLERY
VIDEO GALLERY
TRAINING
DOWNLOADS
CIRCULARS
ANNUAL REPORTS
NOTIFICATIONS
APPLICATION FORMATS
CONTACTS
CONTACT DETAILS
NEWS & EVENTS
FAQs
COMPLAINTS
SITE MAP
Home
TRAINING
New Training Programs
List of New Training Programs conducted by Department of Excise for the year 2010
Click Here to Apply Online
List of New Training Programs conducted by SLIDA
to download SLIDA Training Application Form
Click Here
P. S. No. 2014/317 - Third Instalment - Part IV - Funds - Report of the Auditor General 2012 
Customs Overtime and Cargo Examination Fees Fund - 2012 
1. Financial Statements 
1.1. Qualified Audit Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Customs Overtime and Cargo Examination Fees Fund as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
1.2. Comments on Financial Statements 
1.2.1. Presentation of Financial Statements  
1.2.2. Unidentified Transactions  
This had been continuously pointed out in the audit reports for the years 2008 to 2011. 
Though the Director General of Customs stated that action will be taken to rectify that in the subsequent year, no action had been taken even during the year 2012 to settle the matter. 
1.2.3. Accounts Receivable 
The following observations are made.  
Adequate provisions for bad debts had not been made for those balances uncertain of recovery. 
A formal course of action had not been taken even during the year under review for the recovery of the money from the debtors existing for more than 07 years. 
Similarly, action had not been taken to ascertain the existence of certain institution shown as debtors.  
Attention had not been paid to the possibility of identifying and settling those balances. 
(c) Security deposits had not been obtained in connection with certain debtors' balances. 
1.2.4. Special Deposits and Investments 
The following observations are made in this connection. 
(a) The documentary information in support of the purpose of obtaining the deposits had not been furnished to audit. 
(b) Action had not been taken to find out the existence of the depositor of institutions and those deposits had not been confirmed as refundable deposits. 
(c) As this money had been invested in saving accounts over a long period a very low interest had been earned and attention had not been paid to deploy the money in other suitable investments. 
1.2.5. Lack of Evidence for Audit 
Evidence indicated against the following items had not been furnished to audit. 
Item 
Amount 
Rs. 
Evidence not made available 
(a) Sundry Debtors  
Confirmation of Balances relating to outstanding debts of 158 institutions
(b) Eight Items of Accounts
Confirmation of Balances 
1.2.6. Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
The following non-compliances were observed. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decision 
Non-compliance 
(a) Financial Regulations 
(b) Public Administration Circular No. 9/2009 of 16 April 2009 and the Sri Lanka Customs Circular No. 01/2010 of 19 February 2010
Even though the punch card machines had been introduced by Sri Lanka Customs, none of the officers of Sri Lanka Customs had used the punch card machine during the year under review and no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection. 
1.2.7. Transactions not Supported by Authority 
Internal regulations had been improperly made for enabling the Customs Officers to obtain overtime allowance exceeding 600 hours per month at 12 to 27 hours per day and the formal approval obtained for that had not been furnished to audit. 
2. Financial Review 
2.1. Financial Results  
This deterioration had been mainly due to the decrease of the income of the Fund by 2.7 percent and the increase of the expenditure by 2.4 percent as compared with the preceding year. 
3. Operating Review 
3.1. Performance 
(a) Overtime Fund 
The money collected as overtime from the external clearance centres and the other institutions to defray the expenditure incurred in the performance of duties during the time in addition to the normal duty times of the Customs Officers and for the performance of duties on the dates in which the Customs is closed for duties is credited to this Fund and the payments made to the customs staff for such overtime service performed are considered as the expenditure of the Fund. 
An analysis of the financial results of the Overtime Fund for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the 09 preceding years is given below. 
Year 
Income  
Expenditure
Surplus   
Improvement/ (Deterioration) in the Financial Results as Compared with Preceding year as a Percentage 
Surplus as a Percentage of the Income 
The following observation is made in this connection. 
(b) Customs Cargo Examination Fees Fund  
Out of the examination fees recovered from the parties who clear the goods for the deployment of Customs Officers outside the normal places of work on examination duty, 50 percent is credited to the Customs Cargo Examination Fees Fund and that money is utilized for the payment of allowances.  
3.2. Transactions of Contentious Nature 
The following observations are made.  
(a) The contentious nature of the overtime payment process of Sri Lanka Customs was continuously pointed out in the previous years' audit reports and overtime had been paid in an unrealistic manner even during the year under review. 
An audit check relating to 06 officers of the Export Division for the three months from January to March 2012 revealed that each officer had been on overtime duty in the ranges of 600 hours to 663 hours in each of the three months.  
Further, the average overtime duty of these officers per day had exceeded 20 hours. 
(b) Those officers had been paid cargo examination fees in an unusual manner in respect of the same period for which the above overtime had been paid.  
(c) Even though requests were made to produce the documents to audit in support of the payment of cargo examination fees relating to the Bonds and Baggage Division during February to April 2012, such information was not produced even up to October 2013. 
It was reported that the information relating to the Exports Division for the years 2008 and 2009 had been deleted from the computer, but such information for the year 2010 and 2011 had not been also produced to audit. 
(d) The above overtime and cargo examination fees had been paid in addition to the monthly salaries, incentives, and rewards paid to the officers. 
The overtime earnings of most officers had exceeded their consolidated salaries. 
Payments were made for many officers on the basis on being on duty throughout the year without obtaining leave, which is an unrealistic. 
(e) Even though the outdated regulations on overtime and external examination fees should be amended to rectify the above situations, no action whatsoever had been taken in that connection. 
3.3. Management Inefficiencies 
The following observation is made. 
The unutilized money of the Fund had been brought forward from year to year as Treasury deposits. 
The balances of the Deposit Account and the balance of the Fund indicated improvement as shown below. 
It was observed that necessary steps had not been taken by discussing the matter with the Treasury. 
Year 
Overtime Fund 
Cargo Examination Fees Fund 
Balance of the Treasury Deposit Account 
4. Accountability and Good Governance 
Budgetary Control 
It was observed that the budget had not been used as an effective management control, as the budget revealed quantitative variances between income and expenditure, and actual revenue and expenditure.
5. Systems and Controls‍
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Director General of Customs from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Arrears of Income 
(b) Overtime Payments 
(c) Accounting 
(d) Container Examinations 
(e) Staff Administration 
Name            : Mr. A.L.M. Cassim
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Akkaraipattu
Name            : Mr. K. Rizwi yahzar
Designation     : Accountant
Akkaraipattu Zone
Name            : Mr. S.S. Rathnayake
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Akuressa
Name            : Mr.K.Ajith Thushara
Designation     : Accountant  
Akuressa Zone
Name            : Mr. D.M. Abeyrathne
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Anuradhapura
Name: Ms. A.M.P. Nilanthi
Anuradhapura Zone
Name:Mr.P.G.Ariyapala
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Balangoda
Name            : Mr. H.V.S. Vikirawita
Designation     : Additional Zonal Director of Education
Name            : Mr. M.D.S. Fernando
Balangoda Zone
Name            :Mr.R.M.Ananda
Official Address: 
Zonal Education Office,Hali-Ela,Badulla
Name:Mr.A.R.W.M.S.K.Amarakoon
Badulla Zone
Name: Mrs. S. Chakkarawarthy
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Batticaloa
Name: Mrs. V. Ganeshamoorthy
Batticaloa Zone
Name            : Mr. W.M. Jayantha Wickramanayake
Official Address: 
Zonal Education Office, Vithanage Mw., Colombo-02
Name: Mr. J. Nanayakkara
Name: Mrs. R.M.S. Wasantha
Colombo Zone
Name            : Mrs. W.M.C.Weerakoon
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Denuwara
Name            : Mrs.G.L.T.S.Liyanage
Denuwara Zone
Name            : Mr. N.M.K.B. Nawarathne
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Dimbulagala
Name            : Mr. H.B.S.K. Gunawardhana
Dimbulagala Zone
Name            : Mr. S.K. Mallawaarachchi
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Gampaha
Name            : Mrs. K.G. Sirima
Name            : Mrs. L.A.B.L. Gunasena
Gampaha Zone
Name            : Mr. M.A. Wimalasena
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Trincomalee North, Morawewa
Name            : Mr. L.W.N.C. Pratheep
Gomarankadawala Zone
Name            : Mrs. K.A. Chandrawathie
Official Address: 
Zonal Education Office, Horana
Name            : Mrs. O.C. Nilushani
Horana Zone
Name            : Mr. T. Jhon Qwintus
Zonal Education Office, Jaffna Islands, Velanai
Name            : Ms. S. Kavitha
Islands Zone
Name            : Mr. N. Sirisena
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kegalle
Name            : Mrs. P.G.R.S. Madhavi Welagedara
Name            : Mr. A.D.D.M.R. Abeyrathne
Position:Cheif Accountant
Kegalle Zone
Name            : Mr.K. Mrukawel
Official Address: Zonal Education office, Killinochchi
Name : Mr. R.R.K.S. Ganegoda
Kilinochchi Zone
Name            : Mrs. A.J. Croos
Official Address: Madhu Zonal Education Office, Andankulam, Adampan
Name            : Mr. A.U.D. Premathilaka
Madhu Zone
Name            : Mr.S. Thandayuthapani
Designation     : Hon. Minister of Education
Official Address: Ministry of Education, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee
Name            : Mr.J.S.D.M. Asanka Abeywaedena
Designation     : Provincial Secretary of Education    
Name            : Mr. M.T.A. Nisam
Designation     : Provincial Director of Education
Official Address: Provincial Department of Education, Eastern Province, Orr's Hill, Trincomalee
Name            : Mr. S.Manoharan
Designation     : Additional Provincial Director of Education
Name            : Mr.Sunil S.Karunathilaka
Designation     : Additional Provincial Director of Education
Name            : Mr.A.Vijayanantha Moorthy
Designation     : Additional Provincial Director of Education
Name            : Mr.B.Ketheswaran
Designation     : Cheif Accountant
Eastern Province
Name            : Mr. V.K. Jayarathne
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Galenbindunuwewa
Name            : Mr. B.A.A. Wijerathne
Galenbindunuwewa Zone
Name            : Mr. G.G.A.Premesiri
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Gampola
Name            : Mr. R.H.N.N.Ranasingha
Gampola Zone
Name            : Mr.P.Sridharan
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Hatton
Name            : Mrs.G.A.T.N.Godagedara
Hatton Zone
Name            : Mr. H. Kulasooriya
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Ibbagamuwa
Name            : Mr. H.G. Abeyrathna
Ibbagamuwa Zone
Name            : Mrs. O.M.V.P. Mudalige
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kalutara
Name            : Mrs. A.K.P. Fernando
Kalutara Zone
Name            : Mr. B.M.S.S.S. Basnayake
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kanthale
Name            : Mr. L.W.N.C. Paratheep
Kantale Zone
Name            : Mr. M.M.M.Ziyan
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Mannar
Name            : Mr. A.H.M.S. Bandara
Mannar Zone
Name            : Mr. S.M.A.M. Saddhamangala Subasinghe
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Puttalam
Name            : Mr. R.D. Solaman
Puttalam Zone
Name            : Mrs. L.M. Weniton
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Thunukkai, Mallavi MMV., Mallavi
Name            : Mr. A.M.R.S. Athapattu
Thunukkai Zone
Name            : Mrs.S.Anton Somarajah
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Vavuniya South, Vavuniya
Name            : Ms. R. Anantharani
Vavuniya South Zone
Zonal Education Office, Wellawaya
Name            : Mr. M.A. Rathnasiri
Name            : Mr. D.M.A Senanayake      :  
Wellawaya Zone
Name            : Mr. N.S. Premachandra
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Dehiattakandiya
Name            : Mr. K. Fazeel
Dehiattakandiya Zone
Name            : Mr. K.A. Susil Premanath
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kalegana, Galle
Name          :Mr.K.P.K.S.Chandhima
Galle Zone
Name            : Mr. W.R. Weerakoon
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Hakmana
Name            : Mrs. U.M. Shiriyani Kulathunga
Mulatiyana (Hakmana) Zone
Name            : Mr.W.M.Wejerahna
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kandy
Name            : Mr. P.P.C.S.J. Pathirage
Kandy Zone
Name            : Mr. J.K.V.A. Jayalath
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kekirawa
Name            : Mr. J.K.M.V.K. Jayasinghe
Kekirawa Zone
Name            : Mrs. M.T.S DE Silva
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kothmale
Name            : Mrs. K.M.N.C.Gunarahna
Kotmale Zone
Name            : Mr. S.A. Alagiyawanna
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kuliyapitiya
Name            : Ms. S.M.D.K. Jayasinghe
Kuliyapitiya Zone
Name            : Mr. N.W. Perera
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Matugama
Name            : Mrs. A.G.S.P. Wijerathne
Matugama Zone
Name            : Mr. P.S. Nonis
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Minuwangoda
Name            : Mr. M.C. Perera
Minuwangoda Zone
Name            : Mr. A. Vijayananthamoorthy
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Muthur
Name            : Mr. A.M. Roman
Mutur Zone
Name            : Mr. S. Krishnakumar
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Chawakatchcheri
Name            : Mrs.S.Nanthakumar
Thennamaradchi Zone
Name            : Mrs.Y.M.C.D.Yaparahna
Official Address: ZonalEducation Office, Katugastota
Name            :Mr.P.H.R.P.Kumara
Katugastota Zone
Name            : Mr. Hemapala Gunawardhana
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Kebithigollewa
Name            : Mr. B.A.A. Wijerathne
Kebithigollewa Zone
Name            : Mr. W.M. Piyasena
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Passara
Name            : Mr. W.M. Deshabandu
Name            : Mr. L.D.S. Priyantha
Passara Zone
Name            : Mr. M. Siripala 
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Rathnapura
Name            : Mr. K.L.Hemarathne
Name            : Mr. Dumindu Maithree
Ratnapura Zone
Name            : Mrs. H.W.N.K. Ekanayake
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Sri Jayawardhanapura
Name            : Mrs. R.P.P. Abeykoon 
Sri Jayawardhanapura Zone
Name            : Mr. N. Vijendran
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Trincomalee
Name            : Mrs. G. Partheepan
Trincomalee Zone
Name            : Mr. N.P.A.A. Piyasoma
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Udugama
Udugama Zone
Name            : Mrs. S. Rathnayake
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Maho
Name            : Mrs. W.M. Soma Wijekoon
Maho Zone
Name            : Mr.K.G.N.M.P.B.Nawarathna
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Teldeniya
Name            : Mrs. I.N.Wejewardana
Teldeniya Zone
Name            : Mr. H.B. Wijerathne
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Thambuththegama
Name            : Mr. W.P.S. Wijesinghe
Thambuththegama Zone
Name            : Mr.S. Chandrarajah
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Maruthanarmadam, Chunnakam
Name            : Mrs.P. Kuganeswary
Valikamam Zone
Name            : Mr. D.M.S.Karunarathna
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Walapone
Name            : Mrs.M.P.M.Desanayaka
Walapone Zone
Name            :Mr.Y.M.Rathnayake
Official Address:Zonal Education Office,Nikaweratiya 
Name            :Mr.N.K.B.A.G.Narasinghe
Nikaweratiya Zone
Name            : Mr. M.S.A. Jaleel
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Sammanthurai
Name            : Mr. A.M.F. Rafeek
Samanthurai Zone
Name: Hon. Shan Wijayalal de Silva
Designation: Hon. Chief Minister of Southern Province
Official Address: Chief Minister's office, Upper Dickson Road, Galle
Name: Hon. Chandima Rasaputhra 
Designation: Hon. Education Minister of Southern Province
Official Address: Education Ministry of Southern Province, Dakshinapaya, Labudoova.
Name: Mr. Y.Wikramasiri 
Name: Mr. Jayathissa Block 
Designation: Provincial Director of Education (s.v)
Official Address: Department of Education Southern Province,Upper Dickson Road, Galle. 
Name: Mrs. S.Y. Pathiranawasam
Designation: Additional Provincial Director of Education (Development)
Name: Mr.K.A. Susil Premanath
Designation: Additional Provincial Director of Education (control)
Name: Mr. M.G. Nihal
Southern Province
Name            : Mr. R. Sugirtharajan
Official Address: Zonal Education Office,Thirukkovil
Name            : Mr. M.K. Kentharamoorthy
Thirukkovil Zone
Name            : Chamara Sampath Dasanayake
Designation     : Hon. Minister of Provincial Education
Official Address: Chief Minister's Office, Uva Provincial Council,Raja Veediya, Badulla
Name            : Mrs. G.A.M.S.P. Ambanwela
Official Address: Ministry of Education, Uva Provincial Council, Badulla
Name            : Mr. R.M.P. Rathnayake
Designation     : Provincial Director of Education
Official Address: Provincial Department of Education, Welagedara Road, Badulla
Name            : Mr. R.M. Thilakarathne 
Official Address: Provincial Department of Education, Welagedara Rd., Badulla
Uva Province
Name            : Direct
Designation     : Extension
Name            : Mr. N.A. Handunpathirana
Designation     : Assistant Director of Education
Name            : Mr. Waruna Alahakone
Name            : Mrs. U.A. Samarakone
Name            : Mr. U.K. Mahipala
Name            : Branch
Name list of staff
Name            : Mr. S.S. Rathnayake
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Akuressa
Name            : Mr.K.Ajith Thushara
Akuressa Zone
Name            : Mrs. S.P. Chandrawathie
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Ambalangoda
Name            :Mr.B.P.Thisara 
Ambalangoda Zone
Name            : Mr. N. Nanthakumar
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Vadamaradchi, Point Pedro
Name            : Mr. R. Chandradas
Designation     : Accountant
Vadamaradchi Zone
Name            : Mr.S. Chandrarajah
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Maruthanarmadam, Chunnakam
Name            : Mrs.P. Kuganeswary
Valikamam Zone
Name            : Mrs. P. Ganeshalingam
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Vavuniya North, Puliyankulam
Name            : Mr. M.P.V.N. Bandara
Vavuniya North Zone
Name            : Mrs.S.Anton Somarajah
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Vavuniya South, Vavuniya
Name            : Ms. R. Anantharani
Vavuniya South Zone
Name            : Mr. R.W. Gamage
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Walasmulla
Name:    Mrs. H.K.N.Nadeeshani
Walasmulla Zone
Name            : Mr.M.W.Wejerathna
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Wattegama
Name            : Mrs.I.D.Karunarahna
Designation     : Accountant
Wattegama Zone
Name            : Mr. I.M. Gunasekara
Designation     : Zonal Director of Education
Official Address: Zonal Education Office, Welimada
Name            : Mr. D.M.N.P. Dissanayake
Designation     : Accountant
Official Address: 
Telephone Number:        
Fax: 
e-mail:  
Welimada Zone
Aesthetic Education Branch
Director of Education
Aesthetic Education Branch (1st Floor)
Vision
To: Hon. Minister of Mass Media and Information 
We, the Chairman and the Members of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation present herewith the Annual Report for the year 2012, in accordance with Section 14 (1) of the Finance Act No. 38 of 1971, along with the financial reports. 
On behalf of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation
Chairman, 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, 
Independence Square, 
Colombo 07.
Vision 
To be the flagship broadcaster of all Sri Lankans. 
Mission 
Achieve excellence in creative content and dissemination of timely and valued, educational, entertaining and informative programmes through dedicated team work and state-of-the-art technology to exceed the expectation of Sri Lankans everywhere. 
Aims 
* To produce informative, educational and entertaining programmes while maintaining the highest standards and creativity 
* To attract maximum number of viewers through excellent transmission 
* To achieve financial stability and growth to run as a commercially viable autonomous state enterprise 
* To protect the national identity of Sri Lankans the world over 
Contents 
Message from the Chairman   
Board of Directors     
Senior Management    
Directors      
Award Winning Achievements   
Programmes Division      
News and Current Affairs Division    
Production Services Division  
Engineering Division
Marketing Division  
Administration Division   
Airtime Analysis     
Finance Division     
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility  
Financial Report     
Audit Report     
Message from the Chairman 
For over three decades we have been fulfilling our national obligation while remaining at the forefront of mass communication on behalf of all Sri Lankans. 
The challenges that lie ahead grow ever more complex than those we have left behind.
Over two dozen competitors have entered the market where we enjoyed near monopoly thirty years ago. 
While many private channels resort to extreme commercialism in the midst of intense competition we continue to honour our national responsibility and cater to audiences without compromising good taste and higher standards.
Keeping pace with rapid technological advances in the field is an imperative.
There is a need of considerable spending in order to do so.  
We have been successful in absorbing the very high cost involved in this process 
The long list of local as well as international awards and accolades we have won this year is ample proof for the recognition and appreciation of the national duty which we have fulfilled creatively. 
Our list of awards is a clear evident of that. 
Overcoming challenges in the market, we have surpassed our projected targets of income, signifying yet another major achievement.  
The introduction of dubbed versions of high-quality foreign teledrama series such as “Oshin” and “Sujatha Diyani” proved to be a tremendous success in winning massive audiences as well as securing record-breaking income figures for the airtime belt of 6.30 p.m., which previously had no market value.
Accomplishing all this while eradicating wasteful practices and financial irregularities was yet another remarkable achievement. 
With the purchase of essential engineering and studio equipment we have also saved a huge sum of money which could have otherwise been spent for outsourcing. 
The need for a formal plan to maintain optimum functioning as well as to overcome future challenges has been recognized. Accordingly, we have been able to formulate a Corporate Plan for the time period 2013 – 2017 and commence operations with a view to achieve annual targets.
It was undoubtedly the ample support and commitment by our entire staff including Managers that have made all this possible. 
In appreciation, it was a great pleasure to felicitate with gold those staff members who have completed 30 years of dedicated service.
We also remember with gratitude the blessings of His Excellency the President, the Hon. Minister of Mass Media and Information, Secretary to the Ministry and the support of our Board of Directors. 
Needless to say that the real strength behind has been our viewers who embraced the national television network throughout these decades.
It is with all your support that we continue to strive towards fulfilling your needs while maintaining high standards and developing quality programmes as well as uplifting good taste, ultimately to reach heights of excellence in the field of television broadcasting in Sri Lanka. 
Chairman 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Board of Directors 
Chairman 
Board Member 
Board Member 
Board Member 
(Only for January month) 
Board Member 
Board Member 
Board Member 
Board meetings were held eight times during the year 2012.  
Chairman 
Chief Executive Officer 
Deputy Director General (Finance Manager) 
Deputy Director General (Engineering) 
Deputy Director General (Production Services) 
Deputy Director General (Programmes) 
Director (News) 
Director (Administration) 
Acting Director (Marketing)  
Directors of the Corporation in 2012 
Administration Division 
Director (Research & Training) 
Chief Internal Auditor 
Director (Security Services)
Up to 16.09.2012 
Programme Division 
Director (Film and Dubbing) 
Director (Drama) 
Director (Educational Programme) 
Up to 22.08.2012 
Director (General Programme) 
Engineering Division 
Director (Engineering) 
Production Services Division 
Director (Production Services) 
Director (Production Services) 
Finance Division 
Director (Supplies) 
Programmes that won Local Accolades during 2012 
Programme 
Award 
Recipient of the Award 
Sumathi Tele Awards 
Binari Teledrama  
Best Lyrics 
Binari Teledrama 
Best Singer 
Soiliyas  
Best Documentary Programme 
Jathika Pasala A/Level Drama & Theatre 
Best Educational Programme   
Cobe Sarisara 
Best Sports Programme of the Year  
The Best News Reporting 
Special Jury Award  
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation News Division 
Sitha Nivana Katha- Poya Teledram 
Special Jury Award 
Raigam Teles Awards 
Binari Teledrama 
Best Apparel Design
Apuru Iskole Mahatthaya 
Best Documentary Programme 
Best Sports Programmes of the Year 
Best Tamil News Reader    
“Rise & Shine” Programme  
Best Female Presenter of the Year  
Siyambalanduwe Athage Nikama Yama 
Best Current Affairs Programme 
Duli Pintharu Teledrama 
Best Lighting of the year 
Tomiyai Kitiyai Animated Programme 
Best Children Programme 
SIGNIS Tele Awards 
Best 3D Animation  
Ath Kanda Lihiniya-Teledrama (2011)  
Best Trailer 
Yasa Isuru Teledrama 1     
Best Singer 
Best Lyrics 
Best Music Composer 
Soliyas
The Popular Documentary programme of the Year
Bunka Awards 
In recognition of the artistic talents contributed through the electronic media   
The Best Artist of the Year  
State Tele Awards 
Sakvittho Teledrama 
Best Make Up Artist  
Merit Award for Acting  
Yasa Isuru Teledrama 
Best Singer 
Best Music Director 
Best Actress 
Soiliyas 
Best Documentary Programme 
Pulathisi Diyaniya 
Merit Award 
Nadunana Minisun - 2011 
Best Documentary Programme 
Mal Gudi Day 
The Best Dubbing Programme
Ranga Bhumi 
Best Set Designing 
Pudumaippen 
Best Teledrama    
Manvasenai  
Best  Educational & Cultural  Programme 
Sama Geetha – (Peace Songs) 
Best Music Programme  
Film City 
Best  Presenter 
(Film City – Interview  with National Short Film Producers) 
SAARC International Film Festival 
Apuru Iskole Mahattaya 
Special Jury Award for Documentary Programme 
Nominated Programmes at Awards Ceremonies 
ABU Awards Festival 
Manushya Single Episode Teledrama 
For Jury Award nominated for the final round 
Raigam Tele Awards 
Duli Pintaru Teledrama  
Merit award for Creative directing  
Binari Teledrama 
Best Supporting Actor - Nominee 
Best Supporting Actress - Nominee 
Best Programme Presenter of the Year 
Thrikonamitiya Programme – GCE/OL 
Best Educational programme 
Delft Dupathe Sancharaya 
Best Documentary Programme 
Soyamu Pilithuru 
Best Quiz Programme of the Year
State Tele Awards 
The film ‘Bashu’ 
Nominated as a Best Dubbed Programme 
Sakvittho Teledrama 
Best Supporting Actor  
Best Editing 
“Yasa Isuru” Teledrama
Nominated for Best Actor 
Eberthu Etha Teledrama 
Best Teledrama 
“Eberthu Etha ” (Jathika Rupavahiniya) 
Best Teledrama Director 
Best Actor 
Best Singer 
Sumathi Tele Awards 
Story of Cricket Sri Lanka 
Best Sport Programme 
Amla Bashma & Lavana 
Best Education Programme  
Binari Teledrama 
Best Upcoming Actor - Nominee
Best Upcoming Actress - Nominee
Ranga Boomi 
Best Documentary Programme - Nominee
Programmes Division 
Drama Division
Focusing attention on capturing a large number of viewers, this unit produced many entertainment and single episode Teledramas on varied themes and whilst producing these Teledramas the unit maintained high standards from the inception of Teledrama production and this is considered as a great achievement.
It is important to note that the Teledramas produced during this year won many accolades and were able to capture the intended target audience. 
In times when viewers were inclined to raise questions about the quality of the present day’s Mega Teledramas, this unit was able to introduce a novel concept to Mega Teledramas with the production of “Isiwara Ranakeli” which is a long running Teledrama, whichIn turn, this captured the attention of a vast number of viewers and proved to be a turning point in the Mega Teledrama culture. 
Special projects carried out in 2012 
Dooli Pintharu Teledrama 
From 18.09.2011 to 27.05.2012.
Siriduwa Wedida single episode Teledrama 
2012
To commemorate Sinhala and Tamil New Year
Manushya single episode Teledrama 
2012
To commemorate Vesak. 
Salmal Landa Teledrama
Ransirimal Teledrama
Boralu Para Teledrama
Vijjakaraya single episode Teledrama 
2012.10.01
To commemorate the World Children’s and Elder’s Day.
Yali Pibidee Single Episode Teledrama 
2012
To commemorate Christmas 
Batahira Ahasa (Adaraneeya Yavvanaya) live 
On every Tuesday 
Angili Salakuna 
Telecast at 11.30 pm on Thursday from July up to October 2012
Sunday Ayubowan
On the first Sunday of every month. 
Ranga Bhoomi
On the second and fourth Sundays of every month (till September 2012)
Educational and Documentary programme 
Poson Poya Day live telecast
From Thanthirimale
Esala Poya Day live telecast
From Somawathiya 
Salalihini Rupa Kavya 
To commemorate Rupavahini’s 30th Anniversary
Saddharma Makaranda programme
Daily from 1st September 2012 to 31st December 2012
Thunthara Bodhiya relegious programme
Every Poya Day from month of October 2012
Rupavahini State Award Ceremony and Sumathi Tele-Awards Ceremony 
Jana Niyamuwano programme
to comomorate 12th Anniversary of Dharmasiri Senanayake
Daha Ata Sanniya Shanthi Karmaya  
To mark Broadcasting Co-operations’s 87th Anniversary
Music Unit
Programs produced and telecasted by the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Music Unit in 2012 
Music Programs
Produced other Programmes 
Kunkuma Pottu (Popular Tamil Chart Show) 
Sisindra Show, 
Vesak for Children
Prathibha Prabha
Ridee Tharaka (Popular Sinhala Chart Show) 
Wednesday Nugasevana 
Rhythm Chat ( Entertaining Music Programme) 
Gee Sara  
Pasku Gee
Anula Gee Sara
Paramitha (live telecast)
Bunka Awards
Miyasi Visaka
Gusi Peace award 
Sanda Diya Dothak (a conversational programme with musicians) 
Janapathi Seth Pirith
Christmas Songs
Avurudu Udanaya
Sanda Ranga Madala
Saman Devalaye Perahera (live telecast)
Poya Day Live Telecast
Rajathasara Programme
Sports Unit 
"Kreeda Visithuru” Programme (national & international sports events) was telecasted every week and the Dialog Kit Sports programme as a co-production with T1 Organization was telecasted every Tuesday. 
The World Sports Programme (featuring international events conducted in English) was telecasted weekly on Channel Eye. 
Live programs telecast in 2012
London Olympic 2012 was telecasted as a live and special event for 17 days.
Coca-Cola cricket pathway game events - 3rd stage - here 06 programmes were telecasted.
New Year in Japan - New Year Celebration of the Sri Lankan people living in Japan.
The Air Force Cycle Race(Guwavn Hamuda Papedi Savariya) - (live telecast for three days).
Bradby Shield Rugby Encounter (first stage - Colombo, second stage - Kandy).
Mahaweli Games (beginning and the end of the program was live telecasted, in other days special events were telecasted).
15th Asian Junior Athletic Championship (live telecast for 03 days) - from Sugathadaasa Stadium.
Celvary Super Cross Motor Competition (live telecast from Ibbagamuwa for 06 hours).
Rotherham Circuit Meet, Motor Competitions - live telecast from Katukurunda for 07 hours.
Program Administration Unit
The main responsibility of this unit is to review cost estimates pertaining to the programs of all Divisions and Units of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, and to provide administrative services required from issuing of file numbers for each production in order to co-ordinate all other services until the production process of a program is completed. 
The Program Administration Unit has opened 2005 program record files for the year 2012. 
Various Programs Division   
Educational Programs Division
News and Current Affairs Division
Marketing Division   
NTV Unit
Channel Eye
Total
Special Unit
Programmes produced by this unit during the year 2012: 
Panampattu Talaimannar – Kachchatheevu
The awakening of the lives of the people in Northern & Eastern areas after defeating terrorism, the awakening of tourism and about the places of worship that were isolated for almost 30 years.
Yodha Wawa 
This programme highlighted the project of Yodha Wewa in the Northern and Eastern areas with Post-war progress have allowed paddy cultivation to resume successfully.
Vasthra 
This is the story of the contributions that the Government provided to sustain the country’s local textile industry and the workers’ efforts in every valuable task.
Wana Vaduna Wanaman
This programme depicts the attempts by the aboriginal people to sustain their traditional life style once again and the way they have got used to the modern society and the country’s war.
Rambakenna Oya Project 
This is a set of steps taken by the Government to mobilize local and foreign institutions without acquiring foreign aids to uplift the life style of Daduru Oya people who were suffering due to illiteracy and poverty.
Unu Kirigal Kanden Rukul Pojjata
This is a small section from the autobiography of the world’s oldest aboriginal man, Henanigala, the chief of Vaddahs. 
Waw Pokuna
The strategies adopted by the Government to develop the life styles of village communities and the tanks as well as the change of the rural artistic affairs. 
Kachchatheevu
A documentary programme on Kachchatheevu Island produced to depict the extensive freedom for travelling within the territory of Sri Lanka, after regaining unity.  
Youth Programmes and Performing Arts Unit
This unit carries out their duties under the supervision of Deputy Director General (Programmes) and Director (General Programmes) and the Programmes produced and telecast by the Unit during the year 2012. 
‘Thala’ – Channa Upuli Dancing Concert live telecast - Lotus Theatre
Kapilawasthu Tooth Relic take in procession live telecast - Katunayake 
Agrabodhi Temple Kanthale (Kapilawasthu Tooth Relic taking in procession live telecast) 
Cremation of Ven Wevaldeniya Medhalnkara Thero of Sri Lanka Ramanya nikaya, live telecast - Meerigama
Kapilawasthu Tooth Relic take in procession live telecast - Tissa Maharamaya
Handa Maama Golden Jubilee programme live telecast - Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation
Buddhist News – Poya Day – telecasting islandwide Buddhist news
Alakamandawa – this is a programme, which reveals autobiographies of artists, who have contributed immensely to the field of art 
Sunday Ayubowan. 
Eye Tune - English songs telecast through Channel Eye and NTV Channel 
Sitha Nivana Katha, Single episode Tele Drama – telecast every Poya Day. 
Batahira Ahasa programeme – Live Magazine Programme 
Suhani Rath - Presented with an introductory for Hindi Songs fans. 
Vasuliya – magazine programme aimed at youth. 
Nugasevana - Mondays - Thursdays
Program Presentation Unit 
This unit ensures that the daily transmission of all programs on the National Channel, Nethra, Channel Eye and NTV channels run smoothly and provides a balanced line up of programs to viewers. 
It is this unit’s responsibility to compare the program line ups scheduled with those of the other television stations and present the programs in an appropriate manner and also enter the programs to the line-up that are suitable for family viewing. 
Educational Programs Division
Education Services Unit
The Education Services Unit has the task of producing formal and non- formal educational programs that are helped to improve the knowledge of the children of the nation. 
“Rupavahini Jathika Pasala” commenced in 2011 and was telecast continuously throughout 2012, is a formal educational program produced by the unit and was dedicated to students sitting for G.C.E. (A/L).  
It has currently produced 500 programmes by covering 18 subjects.
Formal educational programs for G.C.E. (O/L) students were also telecast continuously under the theme of “Jathika Pasala”.  
A series of workshops on “Rupavahini Jathika Pasala – G.C.E. (O/L)” have been conducted to coincide with the ‘Dayata Kirula 2013’ which was held in the Ampara District.
04 schools were selected from difficult areas of the district and a series of workshops was conducted for which more than 3000 students participated.  
“Nena Mihira” program which is an educational support program for students sitting the Grade 5 Scholarship Examination became popular amongst the students. 
The main reason for the popularity of the ‘Nana Mihira paper sets’ was  that airing  the Nana Mihira programme coincide with the Gr 5 scholarship. 
Twenty workshops were conducted for the students who sat for the Grade 5 scholarship in 2012 all over the island with an overall participation of 25,000 students.  
The child who came 1st in the island from the Grade 5 scholarships 2012 had also watched the "Nena Mihira" programme series continuously and the specialty  was that she also participated at the workshop held at Kandy. 
The programme ‘Ranga Bhoomy’ aiming the students who follow Drama and Aesthetic education was telecast throughout the year 2012 on Sundays.
A quiz program titled “Dhamma Gaveshi” aiming to enhance the Dhamma knowledge of students attending Dhamma schools around the island ended in December.       
The Team representing Badulla District won the 1st Place at the competition consisting of 23 programmes.
The programme ‘U & I’ commenced with the intention of promoting the English language was popular programme among the viewers. 
A significant programme called ‘Rividina Arunella’ was produced with the national objective of motivating the community to the field of agriculture and was launched as a Web Cast.   
Live telecast of this was commenced from December within Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation's new premises.  
Another specialty  of this programme was the Agriculturist, Mr Udaya Silva, interacting with the viewers’ questions via the phone during the live telecasts. 
The Children Unit
In the year 2012 The Children Unit telecast its programmes under themes of ‘Siyapathvila’ and ‘Minipahan Weta’. 
This program was produced by the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation in collaboration with ABU, Malaysia, under the Children’s Drama Promotion Project for the 4th consecutive year and the program “Supipi Piyum” which was produced by Mr. Suranimala Jinendrasinghe was telecast over on NHK Channel, in Japan on August 2012.  
Documentary Unit 
The key function of this unit is producing documentary programmes
However, other related programmes are also produced.  
Out of these programmes, the unit mainly focuses on, live telecasts; quiz programs, health programs, and formal and informal educational programs. 
A weekly time slot has already been maintained titled ‘Dhara’ to televise Documentary Programmes at 7.30 p.m. on Sundays. 
Many documentary programs were produced and telecast under the various topics on Nature, Personalities, History, Archaeology and Human Life.  
All the producers in the unit made their contribution by producing programs for the time belt.  
The high quality popular programs made by the producers of the Documentary Unit won the Best Awards for the Documentary Programmes category at Sumathi, Raigam and State Awards Ceremonies. 
It was a great achievement that all the nominations for the documentary programs were from the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Documentary Unit at the Award Ceremonies. 
Our target was to set the above record in the year 2011 and we were able to fulfill our determination in the year 2012.  
The aim of this Unit is to winning all nominations in the documentary category in all future Award Ceremonies too. 
The quiz program titled “Suwa Nena” was produced in collaboration with Ministry of Education coinciding with the “World AIDS Day”. 
The telecast of the series of program continued until the year 2012. 
Apart from the production of these programs, religious programs were also produced by the Documentary Unit 
The production and supervision of religious programs was assigned to General Programmes Division from June 2012. 
However, the Christian and Catholic religious programs, Supuwatha and the magazine programme Sudasuna, were produced under supervision of Documentary Unit along with the live telecast of Easter & Christmas Divine Service.   
The program project carried out on behalf of the Exhibition Dayata Kirula 2012 held at Oya Maduwa, Anuradhapura was also conducted under the supervision of Educational Programmes Division but the main responsibility of the project had to be taken over by the Documentary Unit. 
As part of this exhibition, a new   programme titled ‘Dayata  Kirula Gee Taruwa’ was commenced in order to show case the hidden signing talents of children in the area. 
Through this, five talented children were selected as finalists  and graded as “A” Grade singers of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation.  
The Documentary Unit is responsible of producing the “Sunday Ayubowan” program televised on every third Sunday of the month. 
This program televised under the theme “Sathara Diganthe” is produced at external locations focusing on the tourism industry. 
The ETV Unit project under the theme of “Jathika Pasala” was assisted by the producers of Documentary Unit.
A magazine titled Salalihini Watha, released on 21.03.2012 in order to mark the 30th anniversary of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation and that was a special contribution by the Documentary Unit.
It indicates the articles of the history of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation almost 30 years, present states and the future vision.   
Introducing New Programs 
The magazine programmes which were off air for quite some time, re-commenced under the theme of “Aruma Puduma Roda Hathara”.
This program was among the Top 20 programs of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation since the first telecast and was maintained until the end of year.  
With the intention to elevate health programs, a magazine program was commenced under the theme of “Ayubowewa”.
For the first time in history, a Live “Pirith Chanting” was telecast at the Sacred Sri Pada. 
The Corporation generated additional income by entering into sponsorship agreements with various institutions to produce such programs. 
These were produced and telecast in 2012 and continuing in 2013. 
‘Sarisara’ –The Beach Traveler is a popular documentary programme series produced by us.
Books were introduced to the public through the programs ‘Dharana’, ‘Dina Asiriya’ and ‘Sagna Puwath’.   
News and Current Affairs Division 
News Division 
The News and Current Affairs Division makes a great contribution continually to produce daily news, disseminating accurate information to the viewers. 
News is daily telecast in Sinhala, English and Tamil from 7.55 a.m. to 10.10 p.m. 
Sinhala 
7.55 a.m. to 5.55 p.m. – Hourly News (local and international) 
Main news telecasts
12.30 p.m. to 1.00 p.m. - Rupavahini Diva Puwath 
08.00 p.m. to 08.30 p.m – Main Sinhala News 
Tamil 
8.25 a.m. to 5.25 p.m. – Hourly News 
1.30 p.m. to 1.45 p.m. - Diva Puwath 
7.00 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. - Main Tamil News 
In year 2012 Provincial Council Election was held in East, North Central and Sabaragamuwa provinces.
The News Division was able to give a comprehensive coverage of the respective districts from the pre publicity to issuing of final results.
With the fullest support from the IT Unit, the News Division was able to telecast the election results successfully.  
The media coverage of the London Olympics from the 24th of June to the 15th of August 2012 was carried out with great responsibility. 
The News Division was able to air a special coverage of London Olympics through an hourly and main news telecast. 
The News Division played a significant role by telecasting live coverage of Dayata Kirula, Vesak and Poson festival.  
The News Division rendered a great service for the country’s betterment by allocating more time to televise the progress of development activities taking place around the country and disseminate the information to the public.  
The main News telecast in Sinahala, English and Tamil 3 ½ hours per day totaling to 105 hours per month, Sinhala hourly news 01 hour per day totaling to 30 per month ,
Similarly, time has been allocated in the primary and secondary channels for Tamil news. 
Breaking news was telecast in three languages, Sinhala, English and Tamil. 
Moreover, Sivudesa Foreign News commentary was telecast daily from 6.00 a.m. to 6.25 a.m. 
The Graphic Unit attached to the News Division played a substantial role to telecast the news.  
The themes required for news, including all the graphic dealings, are performed by the Graphic Unit. 
Apart from that, the Graphic Unit supports the functions that belong to the Current Affairs Unit and create the graphics for programs as well. 
Moreover, the editing of the visuals gathered through internet by the F T P technique 
The CG that is required for News also complies with the unit. 
The network of Correspondents has also become stronger than before. 
Fifty-four Correspondents were recruited in the year 2012 by way of a three-session interview. 
The contribution of Correspondents was also a great influence for the production of news and more scope was provided for Correspondence at the 10.00 p.m. news and the hourly news.
Asia Vision Unit also played a vital role
Providing foreign news for hourly news telecast and main news is the main role of them as well. 
This unit is responsible for  the President’s coverage including local and international official tours of the President; the provision of technical assistance for the usage of the Telepromptor at the speeches given by the President in special occasions;  televising the development activities taking place around the country;  and the  excellent progress of these development projects, telecasting News Alerts.
Current Affairs Unit 
The Current Affairs Unit comes under the supervision of News and Current Affairs Division.
Current Affairs unit consists of two main sections.
They are Sinhala and Tamil sections. 
In the year 2012, this unit has produced a considerable amount of programmes. 
Among those, the current political programmes are considered as major programmes.
Every Monday, a time period of 02 hours has been allocated for the programmes ‘Vedikava’ and ‘Haraskada’. 
In addition to this, the unit has produced quite a number of programs that were telecast on a weekly basis.
‘Friday’s Nugasevana’, ‘Saturday Ayubowan’, ‘Thirasara’, ‘Rasa Mohootha’ and ‘Ayubowewa’ are notable within the programmes.
Through these programmes an attempt was taken to provide assistance to fulfill the existing needs. 
The live telecast of News Headling from 5.55a.m to 6.25a.m is also another production of this unit. 
This unit was responsible for producing and telecasting the live program ‘Amadam Sisilasa’ which was telecast on every Poya Day from 9.00a.m to 10.00a.m under the leadership of the President and the Current Affairs Units also undertook the live coverage of H. E. the President’s arrival at special occasions.
The first ever military reality musical program in the world titled “Ranaviru Real Star” was supervised and produced throughout the year 2012 successfully by this unit. 
In addition to the above, this unit also produced special programs on national importance, such as the National Independence Day, Victory day, collecting the New Harvest Festival (‘Aluth Sahal Mangalya’) in a timely manner.  
The Tamil Unit of the News & Current Affairs Division produced and telecast ‘Naaledugalil Indru’– News paper Headlines, ‘Abhiviruththip panikal ’ - Government development drive, ‘Vidiyalai Nokki’ discussion on Government development drive, ‘Kandathum Kettaththum’ weekly magazine programme, ‘Ulagavalam’ world political programme, over channel Eye in Tamil medium.  
On the weekends ‘Sadurangam’ a one hour political conference program, ‘Vilaiyaattu Manjari’ the sports programmes were also telecasted.
In addition to the above programs, special programmes which are important to the current situations and overseas tours of H.E. the President and special programs in Tamil medium were also telecasted.
This unit consists of five Producers and ten Production Assistants are working in this division.
Production Services Division 
The Production Services Division takes the forefront in providing creative services required for all productions of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation both in studio and at external locations. 
The Production Services Division consists of 11 units.  
Camera 
Recording (Sound Management) and Multi Camera  
Lighting  
Make - up 
Graphics and Animation 
Special Graphics and Animation 
Set & Props 
E.F.P. Equipment  
Rajatha Studio 
E.F.P Support  
Library 
This Unit is managed by the Deputy Director General (Production Services) who is also responsible for the administration and supervision of the Channel Eye, Nethra and NTV channels. 
The expenses for transport and electricity was brought down directly  by using the Rajatha Studio for studio program productions and live program productions up to some extent. 
Steps have already been taken to transform the studio within next year.  
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation was able to make considerable savings by purchasing new Jib Arm equipment, eliminating the necessity to hire from external parties. 
Additionally, we were able to add a high standard visual quality for drama and musical productions as we purchased a special effect filter and a Clay box.  
During the year 2012 this unit has contributed its service in more than 2165 field programmes, over 6750 studio productions and 400 outdoor broadcasting programs. 
This unit comprises a staff with 30 years’ experience that could maintain quality and technically high standard of the programs and provide service on shift duty basis continuously.
From December 2010, the Multi Camera Unit commenced its field service and was able to curtail the number of staff involved at a production which helped in lowering the budget of program production during the year 2012. 
Through the successful and efficient contribution of the existing small external recording vehicles, 66 recordings and 
live telecasts were made during the year 2012. 
Make-up Unit 
Activities done by the make-up unit in 2012
This unit undertakes necessary makeup for the artists who take part in take part in the production program of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation from 5.30a.m to 10.30p.m on a daily basis. 
This unit undertakes necessary makeup for up to 75 - 100 artists who take part in programmes which also includes live programmes, from 5.30a.m to 10.30p.m on a daily basis. 
The unit contributed a great deal by undertaking the makeup for the “Ranaviru Real Star” reality TV program in 2012.  
The Makeup Unit contributed for “Ransirimal”, “Salmal Landa”, and ‘Nirsathvayo’ which were new Tele Dramas produced by the Drama Unit and rendered their fullest services to all other external productions of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation. 
Other than dramas, the Makeup Unit provided their service to the other station productions  such as New Year live programs, Vesak & Poson  Poya Live programs, Vesak Tele Drama and carols, Monthly Poya live programs, ‘Sitha Nivana Katha’ tele series, Dayata Kirula, Documentary programs, Educational programs, Catholic Programs, Christmas  Tele Dramas and carols. 
The Assistant Director and the 14 staff of Makeup Unit have provided tremendous service for the above programmes including daily Lottery programs. 
Graphics and Animation Unit
The staff of the Graphics and Animation Unit rendered remarkable service by creating Graphic and Animations for ‘Ranaviru Real Star’ program and creating graphics and lettering for all educational programs and studio editing similarly. 
The 3D and 2D Graphics and the creativities the staff provided for the programs have helped to up lift the quality of the programs and were able to obtain the highest ratings for the programs as same. 
Set and Props Unit
The number of Projects and activities that the Set Department fulfilled in 2012 are as follows. 
New Sets
Single episode Tele Dramas
Tele Drama series
Poya Live telecast
(Outstation) 
Set Designers 
Programme commended 
Institute 
New Year Greeting Cards  
The Best Creation 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation
Ranaviru Real Star II 
Dialog  
Ranaviru Real Star II  
Dialog 
"Manushya" Single Episode Drama 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
‘Hurubuhuti’ Children’s Prog 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
The staff of the Set Department contributed their services for quiet number of programmes
2012 Provincial Election, 
Dayata Kirula 2012 Anuradhapuraya, 
2012 Anniversary Pirith Mandapaya, 
2012 Anniversary programme, 
Jana Madhya Hamuwa 
30th Anniversary 
Avurudu Udanaya- Monaragala (covering 09 provinces), 
Avurudu Udanaya Studio 4, 
Buddhabhi Vandana (Nelum Pokuna),  
Sinhala News Set, 
Bunka Awards, 
Poson Live Telecast- Thanthirimale, 
London Olympic 2012,  
Sihina  Hathak, 
Nugasevana New Set, 
Jathika Pasala, 
Aruma Puduma Roda Hathara, 
‘Vedikawa’ Special programme, 
Kapilawasthu Tooth Relic Pradarshanaya, 
International Book Exhibition,  
Deepavali musical programmes,
Threethal musical programmes, 
World Children’s Day Programme set, 
Oshin inauguration event, 
Ranaviru Real Star – Final Programme’s set,  
Sunday Ayubowan 09 sets, 
Batahira Ahasa (Aththidiya),
Special Christmas telecast, 
Christmas Carol (Tamil)  & Street Drama, 
Teledrama Series 
Salmal Landa long drama, 
Ran Sirimal, 
Vishva Gaveshi drama
Single Episode  
Sitha Nivana Katha – 10, 
Avururdu Teledrama – 01, 
Vesak Teledrama -01, 
Tamil Tele Drama – 01, 
Children Teledrama - 01  
Library 
The Library is considered as one of the main units of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation under the supervision of Programme Production Service.  
This unit consists of 19 staff members  
The specialty of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation library is the way it is maintaining the information both in print and visual media for program productions. 
Special Projects 
Preserving U-Matic cassettes and preparations to preserve cassettes using XD CAM technology. 
The advantage of this preserving system is that the visuals copied in that format will be preserved for nearly 50 years without harming its technical qualities.
Rest of the advantages includes the ability to sore within only a very small space and protecting the cassettes from fungus and other damages.    
Channel EYE 
The programs telecast on Channel Eye are 
“Rise & Shine - Variety program, live telecast daily  
“Eye- Shuffle” – Western Music program,    new songs , live telecast 
“Cafe Classics” – Music program, old hits, live telecast 
“Sunday Spice” – Variety program on meeting artists 
“Merry Christmas” – Special Christmas music program 
“Poya Discussion” – Poya Discussion program 
Discussions - current affairs  
Tamil Program Unit - Nethra TV 
The Tamil Program Unit caters to Tamil speaking viewers of the country, focusing on Tamil Language programs. 
The programs telecast on Nethra TV are in the following order; 
Vanakkam Nethra - 
Discussion programme, weekly live telecast 
Udaya Dharisanam -
Magazine programme, weekly live telecast 
Lunch Time Music -
Live music programme, weekly live telecast 
Education programme -
Daily live telecast for G.C.E. (O/L & A/L) students 
Saivaneedi - 
Hindu religious program 
Pattam poochchikal - 
Children entertainment program 
Pudam Puthu Kalai  - 
Magazine program, 
Weekend, 
Live telecast 
M9.30 - 
Music program 
Jaikkalam Vanga - 
Talent Show 
Kodei mazlei - 
Magazine music program 
Natya - 
Tamil Local Tele Drama 
Ippadikku Sattam - 
Sri Lankan Law related program 
E-channeling -
Medical program 
Samayal Gallery - 
Cooking program 
Kodei Vasandam -
Magazine program 
Brindawani - 
Classical music program 
Film City -
Local short film making programme 
Kaveetha Talent - 
Talent Show, sponsored by Higher Education Ministry 
Udira Pookkal - 
Magazine program 
Other Special Programs 
New Year and Nethra Anniversary  
Thai Pongal - 
Special live cultural & traditional program 
Thaipongal special Tele Drama 
Thaipongal special musical program 
Matale Theru Festival 
Maha Shiva Rathri Day 
Sinhala & Hindu New Year 
Vesak Celebration 
Poson Celebration 
Nallur Annual Theru Celebration 
World Children’s Day 
Deepavalee Celebration  
Christmas program 
Muslim Programs Unit 
The Muslim Programs Unit is attached to the Production Services Division. 
This unit consists of an Assistant Director, 02 Producers, 01 Production assistant and a Typist Clerk. 
This unit produces programs catering to Muslim viewers 
This is done under religious, cultural and traditional themes enabling the Muslim community to be in touch with their religion and culture.   
Engineering Division 
The Engineering Division contributes directly to maintaining the Corporation’s technical standards in programme production and transmission at international standards. 
This division consists of the Master Control Room, Studios, Transmission, Maintenance, Information & Communication Technology, Power and Air Conditioning and Civil Engineering units which are further divided in to sub units based on their responsibilities. 
The Maintenance unit is divided into Basic Maintenance and ENG Maintenance sub units 
Various Projects are also undertaken in addition to these. 
Five studios and three outdoor transmission vehicles are utilized in the programme production process while 13 transmission stations established around the country are utilized in process. 
They are, Pidurutalagala, Deniyaya, Sooriyakanda, Hanthana, Primrose, Kirimatiya-kanda, Namunukula, Palali, Padagala, Hingulakanda, Kokavil, Bambalapitiya and Torrington Transmission station. 
The various services rendered by the units and sub-units of this Division over this year have also been given in summary from below and this Division is supervised by the Deputy Director General (Engineering). 
Main Control Room 
1. The MCR received 02 NLE Adobe CS 6.0 work stations for drama editing. 
2. MCR old ceiling removed and new metal ceiling installed. 
3. During Olympic Station 03 lobby was taken as a expanded studio to provide live coverage.
4. Digital arching of old programmes with two new XDCAM PDW 1500 machines installed in MCR. There were 50,000 hours of Rupavahini Productions & National events to be archived, and planned to purchase more XDCAM Machines to speed the process. 
This Project was commenced at a cost of 4.6 million and expected to expand urgently.
Studios and Outdoor Telecasts 
As in the previous years, Studio 1, Studio 2, Studio 3 and Rajatha outdoor studio were facilitated to produce variety of programmes in both live telecasts and recordings. Deputy Director Engineer (Studios and Outside Broadcasting) is responsible for the Management, Operations, Maintenance and Developments of Studios under the direction of DDG (E). 
In Studios and Outside Broadcasting unit, 05 nos. of Assistant Directors (Engineering), 36 nos. of Technical Officers and 12 nos. of Studio and Outside Broadcast Assistants have been employed in 2012. 
Following programmes were produced as block bookings using studio facilities. 
Studio 1 -
Dawase Paththara,
Vinivida, Nugasevana,
Development Lottery Draw,
Saturday Ayubowan,
Hiru Viyana,
Business World,
Jathika Pasala,
Ranga Bhoomi,
Gee Sara,
Sandurangam,
Malima/Brinthavani,
Sunday Spice/Eye Shuffle/Café Classis,
Film City.
Studio 2 - 
Lama Puwath,
Siwudesa,
Buddhist News,
Vanakkam Nethra,
Udhaya Darisanam,
Arivoli,
Asi Disi Puwath,
Dina Asiriya,
Ulaha Valem,
E-Mithuro,
Thirasara,
Namma Sunday,
Vilayattu Manjari,
Kreeda Visithuru,
M 9.30
Studio 3 - 
Rise and Shine,
Pehasaraniya,
Sunday Ayubowan,
Haraskada,
National Lottery Board Draw,
Rajathasara,
Sanda Diya Dothak,
7 Dreams,
Ira Andurupata,
Gee Muthu,
Hurubuhuti,
Pattam Poochigal,
Puththam Putu Kaalai,
Raga Maydai,
Pirai Nila,
Muthuhara,
Ridi reyak,
Rhythm Chat 
In addition “Rasi Manjari”, “Nana Mihira”, “Yathirai”, “Sanda ranga Mandala”, “Daham Bima”, “Paramitha”, “Diriyata Saviyak”, “U & I English Programme” were produced as normal booking in Studios. 
This jib crane system was repaired and modified by retired cameraman working in camera unit. 
This has being utilized successfully and it save remarkable cash out avoiding the outsourcing of jimmy jib systems from outside suppliers. 
And also, after installing this, there are 05 nos. of camera has been facilitated in Studio No. 3 for programme productions.  
Outside Broadcasting 
Outside Broadcasting facilities were also operated by the supervision and the direction of Deputy Director (Studio and Outside Broadcasting) under the direction of Deputy Director General (Engineering). 
In 2012 also, there were lot of outside broadcasting events covered by using Outside Broadcasting  1 and Outside Broadcasting 2 and there are 66 Outside Broadcasting events have been covered 
Ranaviru Real Star 
Amadam Sisilasa 
Sunday Ayubowan 
Nawam Perahera 
Sport Live Programmes 
Sigiriya Super Cross,
Vijayaba Motor Race,
Air Force Motor Race,
Fox Hill Super Cross,
Gajaba Super Cross,
Katukurunda Motor Races,
Gluco Six Cricket Tournament,
Youth Games,
Rupavahini Volleball. 
6. Musical Programmes
SMIB Samarusara Musical,
Mahaweli Musical Show,
Kavita,
Christmas Musical Show
7. Independence Day Live 
8. Sinhala and Tamil New year live 
9. Buddhabivanda vesak Programme 
10. Nawagamuwa Perahera 
11. Janapathi Jana Hamuwa 
12. Children’s Day 
13. Christmas Mid Night Mass 
14. Miss Ceylinco VIP 
15. Deyata Kirula 
16. Election Result Telecast 
17. Poya Programme 
Transmission Unit 
1. Completed installation, testing and commissioning of digital TV transmission project for the Northern Province on February 2012. 
2. Provided live linking facilities for 120 nos. of outside broadcast events across the country. 
3. This includes the providing of live linking facilities for Air Force Cycle Race 2012 from 15 locations for 03 days including the start and finish. 
4. Produced a Digital Satellite news Gathering (DSNG) system for the use of satellite linking technology for outside broadcast events and the DSNG is being used for outside Broadcast events since November 2012. 
Maintenance Unit 1 
Major Equipment repairs -  157 
Miscellaneous duties -  532 
OB Duties - 54 
Including major OBs with Slow-motion facilities 
Air Force Race, 
Independence Ceremony, 
Sigiriya Super Cross, 
Boyagane Motor Cross, 
New Year OB Monaragala, 
Foxhill Super Cross, 
Asian Championship,
Bradby Shield Rugby, 
Walave Super Cross, 
Minneriya Super Cross, 
Gajaba Super Cross, 
Katukurunda Motor Cross, 
Sumathi tele Awards, 
National Youth Games. 
Special Assignments 
Exhibition Stall at Dayata Kirula 
Special studio preparation for Olympic in Studio
Provided the following technical facilities for studio and outside productions;
PA System Setups
Video Projector Facilities
Scan Converter Facilities
Maintenance Unit 11 
Following operations were carried out. 
Camcorders 
Preventive Maintenance
Special Maintenance
Fault repairs
Portable VCRs Preventive Maintenance
Special Maintenance
Fault repairs
Camera Lenses Fault repairs
Video Monitors Fault repairs
Audio Monitors Fault repairs
Camera Power Adaptor /Chargers Fault repairs
Light Equipment Fault repairs
Specification Preparations
Tender Evaluation
Acceptance Tests
Information and Communication Technology Unit 
Information and Communication Technology Unit managing Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation LAN with active & passive components including 290 computers with 90 printers with 15 servers including web server, Mail Server (with 1000 email accounts), Application Servers, Time & Attendance Server etc. 
Computer hardware Maintenance, Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation website (www.rupavahini.lk) development and maintenance and in-house software application development carried out by ICT staff. 
Apart from that development & implementation of software for the live sport events were carried out.  
Further, development and implementation of software for the telecast of Election results was carried out as a special task. 
1. Upgrade the 2Mbps internet leased line to 4 Mbps. 
2. Re-launch the www.rupavahini.lk web site. 
3. On demand video streaming started with Tele Drama, News Sinhala & Tamil musical programme and special events with high quality video. Five different geographical locations mirror servers and
ensure the fast contest delivery to the whole world with zero down time. 
4. Real time video streaming of Rupavahini channel throughout the transmission. 
5. Real time video streaming of Channel Eye channel on important events. 
6. Making technical arrangements in order to cater the individuals who use the mobile and other device for viewing. 
7. Refurbish of ICT unit started. 
8. Provided technical facilities for the Time & Attendance system running with Bio-Metric devices. 
9. Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation LAN fiber ring upgrade as a phrase. 
10. User training on Microsoft Office 2010. 
11. New FTP facility to news room with Sri Lanka Telecom shared 100GB disk space and point to point leased line from SLT to Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation news room. 
Power and Air Conditioning Unit 
This unit carried out preventive maintenance work of following systems monthly, quarterly and annually. 
Central AC Systems with related motors and power panel in ST-1 & 2 project & ST – 3 project. 
AC systems in out broadcasting vehicles, OB – 1, OB -2, Head line van & slow motion bus etc.
Refrigeration equipment in staff canteen,
In addition to that attend 197 numbers of break downs of AC units and related equipment. 
Lay down new drain lines for each split AC units around the buildings due to request by anti dengue campaign. 
Installation of AC units for the following units.
Book Library, 
Room, 
Education Unit,
Music Unit, 
News section, 
Marketing Division, 
UPS room in Deniyaya Tx.Station, 
Drivers room in Kokavil Tx. Station, 
2D & 3D Animation studio 
Main Control room 
Civil Engineering Unit 
Rebuilt the toilet of Engineering Division. 
Repaired the drains of Studio complex. 
Supplied furniture to the Maintenance Unit .
Renovated the Main Control Room. 
Renovated the 2D & 3D Animation Studio  
Supplied Furniture to 2D & 3D Animation Studio.  
Supplied furniture to Music Unit. 
Fixed the ceiling of Make-up Unit. 
Renovated IT Unit 
Repaired inner roads of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation premises 
Marketing Division 
The Marketing Division operates under the purview of Deputy Director General (Marketing) and in order to carry out its functions efficiently, the Marketing Division is divided into following main units: 
Administration unit 
Marketing unit
Scheduling  unit 
Marketing Promotion unit   
Recovery unit
Publicity and Media unit
Commercial Production  unit 
The following special programs were instrumental in the increase in earnings in 2012 
Sinhala & Hindu New Year programs 
Vesak /Poson Celebrations 
Women’s Day program 
Oshin 
Sujatha Diyaniya 
Children’s Day 
The Ranaviru Real Star reality TV program 
Motor Racing Events 
The unit was able to generate additional income as indicated below by organizing and telecasting promotional programs for clients and also from various sponsorships. 
Sinhala & Hindu New Year Programme 
This year too, the print media was used to promote all channels and also to give publicity to various programs being telecast, through the Publicity and Media Unit. 
The companies engaged for this purpose on contract basis are,
Lake House
Upali Newspapers
Sumathi Newspapers 
Rivira Media (Pvt) Ltd.
Aiming at increasing the viewership, advertisements were published through these organizations according to a proper plan, throughout the year in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. 
The Scheduling Unit supports the Marketing Division to fulfil their income targets by proper scheduling and telecasting of advertisements obtained from clients through healthy relationships. 
The Scheduling Unit has scheduled 389,879 commercials during 2012. 
The Marketing Programs Production Unit continued to produce the popular Lotteries Program, “Hiru Wiyana”, and other promotional programs for its clients while producing trailers and commercial tagging in order to give publicity for programs.  
Further, the Marketing Production Unit was responsible for producing national events and musical programs on client base. The number of Lottery Draw programs produced daily by the unit was 1404 annually.   
In the year 2012, the Sinhala & Hindu New Year event was held covering (09 provinces) the entire island and it included cycling, Avurudu Kumari contest and Elle as well.
The final event was held under the theme ‘Sirilaka Piri Avurudu Siri Rupavahini Avurudu Udanaya 2012’ in Monaragala and captured the highest viewership in comparison with the events organized by the other channels during the April season. 
This was recorded in the television history as the first ever program that covered all 09 provinces of the island.  
Administration Division 
All the administrative functions of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation were carried out by the Administration Division under the guidance and direction of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Chairman, 
The Division was headed by the Director (Administration). 
Administration Unit 
Public Relations Unit   
Reception Unit 
Record Room 
Transport Unit 
Security Unit 
Research and Training Unit  
Legal Administration Unit     
Internal Audit Unit                   
Category of Employees
No of Employees 
Permanent Staff        
Employees work on Contract Basis     
Employees work on Assignment Basis      
Total employees                
Approved No of Employees             
The details of the employees Recruited
On permanent basis
On contract basis
Total no of Recruited
Number of employees retired
Number of employees resigned
Insurance Covers
The Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation entered into an agreement with the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation to cover the Medical Insurance, Fire Insurance, and all Accidental Insurance Schemes From 1st January 2012 to 31st December 2012.   
Hospitalization and Surgery Insurance Covers
(Bills issued for hospitalization, spectacles and OPD consultations were paid) 
Serious Illness Insurance 
Accident Insurance 
Fire and all other Risk Insurance 
Purpose of the foreign tour     
No. of Participants 
Training programs
Meetings and Seminars
Official tours and Head of States event coverage
Special Projects in 2012
A scheme to restructure the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation organization was undertaken in order to streamline the recruitment process and the promotion scheme.   
Organizing of the “Sewa Prabha 2012” ceremony which was held to appreciate and felicitate the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation employees who won awards at the National and International Television Award Ceremonies. 
The project of Corporate Plan for the period of year 2013 – 2017 was successfully completed and released. 
Anniversary Celebrations and Events 
In line with Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation’s 30th Anniversary, an Awarding Ceremony was organized for the staff members of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, who have completed a service of over 25 years 
The nnnual Pirith Ceremony and the Alms Giving were organized on 14th and 15th February as part of the Anniversary Celebrations. 
Employees who completed 20 years of service at the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation were presented with gold tokens in appreciation on 2nd May 2012. 
Joining with the Recreation Club of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, organized the Annual New Year Festival for Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Staff. 
Public Relations and Reception Unit
In order to make Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation popular, this unit has ensured providing the children who visit the Rupavahini Corporation with proper knowledge and sending letters to the Principals about the must-watch programmes for children.   
The number of letters posted to schools within this year totaled to 709. 
The programs organized by the Public Relations Unit include: 
A medical camp with specialists (Doctors) for the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Staff in association with Colombo General Hospital and Health Ministry. 
The Unit conducted an Ayurvedic medical camp for Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation staff in association with Ministry of Indigenous Medicines.  
Special projects conducted to destroy dengue in association with Colombo Municipal Council. 
The Unit organized a clinic to distribute spectacles among the staff free of charge.  
The Unit opened Milco Rupavahini Welfare outlet. 
(This project was put into action under the assistance of Chairman of Milco and intervention of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Welfare Society and his outlet was opened as another canteen where the staff could buy milk, short eats and other similar food items.) 
Transport Unit 
Providing transport as requested by news and program recordings, visiting locations and visiting relay centres outside Colombo and providing transport for other daily duties of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation are the main functions of this unit. 
59 employees are attached to this unit which is managed by two Transport Officers. 
Along with the 43 vehicles which belong to the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation fleet, another 10 more vehicles were hired to ensure uninterrupted service. 
The total mileage of travel undertaken by the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Transport Unit in the year 2012 was 1,579,976 km. out of which 1,178,120 km were covered by Corporation’s vehicles, and 401,856 km were covered by the hired vehicles.
When compared to the mileage of last year, this year shows a duduction of 79145 km.  
80% of vehicle repairs were successfully completed within the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation garages which ensured that the repairs were done properly while saving costs. 
03 employees were newly recruited for the Garage. 
Security Unit 
The service of the Army forces, private security as well as the security officers of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation is taken to fulfil the services. 
Also this unit has the responsibility to keep the premises clean with the assistance of BMES institute. 
Legal Administration Unit 
Number of cases filed by Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation during the year 2012
Commercial High Court
High Court Civil Appeals
District Court
Magistrate Court
Number of cases filed against Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation during the year 2012
Supreme Court
Commercial High Court
District Court
Labour Commissioner
The progress the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation achieved during the year 2012 
Some of the cases filed against Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation were settled in 2012. 
In addition, advertisers such as Admasters, Prime Ads, Grassroot (Pvt) Ltd and Srimal advertising came to an agreement with Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation to settle the money they owed on installment basis. 
Internal Audit Unit 
The duties covered during the year 2012 
Number of Audit checks conducted - 12
Number of Audit reports submitted - 10  
Number of special reports submitted to Chairman - 24 
Research and Training Unit 
The Research & Training Unit perform their duties under the direct supervision of Director General and its administration handled by the Administration Unit. 
At a time when there is challenging competition among the rival television stations to capture the highest possible viewership it is very important to produce quality programs in order to increase the revenue. The Research and Training Unit is responsible for providing the training required to develop the Corporation’s human resources and technological abilities.
Training programs
Training programs 
No.of Programs
No. of Participants 
Local – Training Programs
Local – External Training Programs
Training programs conducted in collaboration with foreign training institutions 
As per the agreement between France’s CFI institute and the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, it was initially scheduled to provide expertise only for 02 workshops. 
Due to our special request from us, the number of workshops was increased to 03.
Accordingly a 02 week workshop for children’s programs was organized after 20 years and all the staff of children’s unit took part in it.
This is a fulfilment of the Corporation’s objective for Children’s programs in 2013.    
Research 
Several numbers of Special surveys were done despite the data analysis of LMRB.
In this context it is prominent that we gather the ideas from the staff members as a solution for the problems such as the strategies taken for program standardization, identifying the problems experiencing by the management as well as the staff members and planning the remedies in order to solve such problems   in future. 
The collected ideas had been considered for the 05 year action plan.  
Another special survey was done on children programmes of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation based on World Children’s Day.
Although here was 91.5% tremendous growth of the viewership for the children programs, according to the results of the survey, it is very clear this growth depended on cartoons & dubbed programs.   
It was also revealed that children did not possess any specific program of any channel in their mind as preference. 
Airtime Analysis
The total airtime that the National Channel telecast in 2012 amounted to 7283.7 hours.  
From this amount 6014.3 hours were used for programs while 1269.5 hours of airtime was used to telecast advertisements. 
The total telecast hours over the Channel Eye was 5624.3h, of which 5276.1 hours of airtime was allocated to telecast programs over the channel. 
The telecast hours of advertisements were 348.2h.   
The following indicates the airtime that Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Channels were telecasted during the year 2012.  
Air Time Analysis - 2012
Categorization of Programmes - 2012
National Channel 
Channel Eye 
Information Programmes 
News 
Political 
Economic        
Current Affairs 
Social 
Ayuvbowan 
Educational Programmes 
Education 
Documentary 
Agriculture 
Quiz 
IT 
Magazine 
Children Programmes 
Children 
Cartoon 
Youth Programmes 
Women Programmes 
Nugasevana 
Women 
Cultural & Religious Programmes 
Cultural 
Religious 
Entertainment Programmes 
Drama 
Film 
Film 
Music 
Variety 
Sports Programmes 
Publicity Programmes 
Other Programmes 
Total 
Commercial Air Time - 2012 
Sponsorships  
47.3% of the National Channel’s airtime sponsorship, which amounted to 2845.5 hours, while 25% (1321.0 hours) of the Channel Eye airtime gained sponsorship in 2012. 
Categorization of Programmes 
National Channel 
Channel Eye 
Sponsored 
Non-Sponsored  
Total
Scheduled Programmes by Language 
Language 
National Channel 
Channel Eye 
Sinhala
Tamil 
English 
Other  
Total 
International Relations Unit
In 2012 this Unit directly provided its service to several special tasks. 
The Teledrama ‘Jewell in the Palace’ produced by MBC was obtained by Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation as a complimentary item under the patronage of Korean Embassy of Sri Lanka.
The Teledrama series which consisted of 54 episodes was dubbed into Sinhala under the title of ‘Sujatha Diyaniya’ and gained the highest viewership becoming most popular Teledrama. 
The musical show ‘Vienna Philharmonic New Year Concert’ which was a live telecast from Vienna, Austria was obtained free of charge through the Satellite and this was recorded live and later on telecast.
Further this unit was able to obtain documentary programs from China & Korea at no cost under the patronage of relevant Embassies. 
Another duty entrusted to this unit is to enter the high-standard programs made by various Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Producers or International Competitions and Award Ceremonies.  
Accordingly in 2012, entries were sent in for international competitions such as Prix Jeunesse International in Germany, ABU Prize 2012 in Malaysia, World TV Awards in Thailand, U R I T Grand Prix Author’s Documentary in France, Japan Prize 2012 in Tokyo, Japan.   
The international educational tours which were provided directly to the IR Unit were offered to a producer for Siyol – Korea, 02 producers for China, and 02 producers for Shanhai – China under the Chairman’s approval. 
The High Commissioners and Ambassadors in diverse countries make statements for their respective countries, celebrating National and Republican Days.   Those statements were recorded by the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation.  The coordination part of this was handled by the IR Unit. 
Record Room 
The responsibility is to prevent pilling up documents unnecessarily in the respective Units and Divisions.  
The responsibility is to provide space, tidiness and attractiveness in the Units and Divisions. 
The responsibility is to provide opportunity to the staff members to carry out daily activities without any interruption as they are free from unnecessary obstacles. 
The responsibility is to provide files promptly at the request of officers for purpose of administrative, legal or any other official matter. 
The responsibility is to provide guidance over the disposal system by covering the office staff on obligatory instructions for a Government corporation in the Act 48 of 1973 and arranging the list of disposal documents accordingly. 
The responsibility is to archive the files which are essential to the Corporation. 
Finance Division 
The Finance Division is organized around the functions of Revenue, Payments, Salaries, Book-Keeping and the Costing Unit.
The Supplies Unit too comes under the purview of the Finance Division.
The Division primarily carries out the functions of financial management and financial reporting of the Corporation. 
Each of the units of the Finance Division discharged its duties during the year 2012 efficiently, effectively and economically to bring about the optimum returns to the Corporation. 
All financial transactions that passed through these units were executed with integrity, transparency and objectivity. 
Payments on all programme files were made in accordance with applicable regulations and to support programme production and broadcasting. 
The division all took the initiative to follow up on all due payments of completed programmes and met the payment obligations by the respective deadlines. 
Staff salaries and all other staff benefits were paid without any delay and statutory deductions were remitted to the respective institutions on or before the deadline. 
Primary income generated from the sale of airtime and other peripheral incomes were recorded in conformity with applicable accounting principles and standards. 
The Supplies Unit, coming under the preview of the Finance Division, procured all the necessary items (both capital and non-capital goods and services) to support the production, direction and telecast of programmes on the main channel Rupavahini, Chanel Eye/ Nethra and NTV. 
Accurate and timely financial and management reports, generated in accordance with accounting principles and standards and were submitted to other divisions and the Board of Directors to take informed and responsive decisions. 
Accordingly, both routine and ad-hoc (on demand) reports were compiled to meet requirements. 
All major financial decisions were subjected to several reviews and the resulting conclusions formed the basis of the legal and authorized decisions made for the Corporation. 
In comparison with other state sector institutions the Corporation has not relied on any long tern loans to finance its operations. Moreover, it has maintained reliance on short term loans and borrowings at minimum levels. 
Given the current commercial and economic conditions, good financial management is indeed a challenging task. 
However the division has been successful in directing the Corporation’s financial management so as to safeguard the financial stability and financial independence of the Corporation.   
Statement of Director’s Responsibility 
The Finance Act No.38 of 1971 and the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Act No.6 of 1982 require the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year giving a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”). 
The Directors confirm that in preparing the financial statements of the Corporation, appropriate Accounting Policies and Standards have been selected, consistently applied and supported by responsible and prudent judgments and estimates.
Having reviewed the Corporation’s future financial projections, cash flows and current performance, the Directors consider that the Corporation has adequate resources to continue operations and the Directors have thus adopted a going concern basis in preparing financial statements. 
The Directors have taken the responsibility to ensure that the Corporation maintains accounting records that disclose with responsible accuracy the financial position of the Corporation as required by Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Act No. 38 of 1971 and Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
The Directors have taken responsible measures to safeguard the assets of the Corporation and to establish appropriate systems of internal controls in order to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors also confirm that to the best of their knowledge all taxes and levies payable by the Corporation, all contributions, levies and taxes payable on behalf of and in respect of the employees and all other known statutory obligations including retirement gratuities as were due as at the Balance Sheet date have been either duly paid or appropriately provided in the financial statements. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors  
Chairman 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Statement of financial position 
Note 
31 December 2012 
31 December 2011 
1 January 2011 
Assets     
Non – Current assets      
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible asset
Available for sale financial asset
(Investment)
Deferred income tax asset
Tsunami fund
Held to maturity financial assets
Current assets     
Inventories
Trade receivables
Loans & receivables
Other receivables
Prepayments
Cash and cash equivalents
Equity and Liabilities
Capital and reserves
Stated capital
Accumulated profit / (loss)
Non- current liabilities      
Government grant for capital items
Foreign aid
Tsunami fund payable
Defined benefit obligations
Finance leases payable non-current portion
Current liabilities      
Trade payables
Other financial liabilities
Other payables
Finance leases payable current portion
Bank overdraft
Total liabilities
Total equity and liabilities
The notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements. 
The fiancé manager certifies that the financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards as laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, finance act no. 38 of 1971 & Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation act of no. 06 of 1982. 
Mr. Varuna Sanjaya Dharmaratna  
14 March 2013 
Deputy Director General
Finance Manager       
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements. 
These financial statements were authorized for issue by Board of Directors on 2nd April 2013. 
Mr. Mohan Samaranayake
Chairman         
Director  
14 March 2013 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation
Comprehensive income statement 
Note 
31 December 2012
31 December 2011 
Sales 
Cost of sales 
Gross Profit 
Other operating income 
Distribution costs 
Administrative expenses 
Operating Profit  
Finance costs 
Profit before income tax 
Income tax expenses 
Total comprehensive income for the period 
The notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements. 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Statement of changes in equity 
Retained earnings 
Government Contribution 
Total 
Balance at 1 January 2011 
Prior year adjustments deferred tax 
Changes in accounting policies – 
Adjustment in debtor provision 
Balance at 01 Januar0y 2011 
Balance at 01 January 2011 
Prior year adjustments deferred tax 
Comprehensive income for the year 
Dividend declared to government (25%) 
Impairment of housing loan 
Changes in accounting policies – 
Adjustment in debtor provision 
Balance at 31 December 2011 
Balance at 01 January 2012 
Comprehensive income for the period 
Adjustment in deemed dividend 2011 
Dividend declared to government (5%)  
Balance at 31 December 2012  
The notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements. 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Statement of cash flows
31 December 2012 
31 December 2011 
01 January 2011 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from operations 
Interest paid 
Interest received 
Defined benefits obligations paid 
Taxes paid 
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities
The notes on pages 6 to 41 are from an integral part of these financial statements. 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Notes to the financial statements 
1. General Information 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) was incorporated under the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Act. No. 6 of 1982. 
The Corporation operates as the National Television Broadcaster in Sri Lanka with the prime objectives of providing education, entertainment & information to a multi ethnic & multi religious Sri Lankan society. 
Total number of employees of the Corporation as at 31st December 2012 was 1006
(Permanent, Contract & Casual grades).
The Financial Statements of the Corporation for the year ended 31st December 2012 were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on 2nd April 2013. 
2. Basis of preparation and adoption of Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards (‘SLFRS’)
The Corporation prepares its financial statements in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (‘SLFRS’) issued by the Institute of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka and the requirements of Sri Lanka and the requirements of Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. 19 of 1995. 
The institute of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka issued a new volume of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (‘SLFRS’) and to require enterprises to apply these standards effective for years beginning on or after 1 January 2012. 
The financial statements have been prepared in compliance with SLFRS, subject to certain transition elections and exceptions disclosed in note 8. 
3. Summary of significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
3.1    Basis of preparation 
The financial statements of the corporation have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards (‘SLFRS’). 
No adjustments have been made for inflationary factors affecting the financial statements. 
The financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan rupees rounded to the nearest thousand. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with SLFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Corporation’s accounting policies. 
The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 6.  
Changes in new standards, amendments and interpretation issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2012 and not early adopted. 
3.2 Currencies 
(a) Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of the Corporation are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. 
The financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees, which is the Corporation’s functional currency. 
(b) Transactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement.  
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and equivalents are presented in the statement of comprehensive income within ‘finance income or cost’. 
All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the statement of comprehensive income within ‘other (losses) /Gains’.  
3.3 Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings comprise transmission stations and head officers. 
All the property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation. 
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the corporation and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. 
The carrying amount of replaced parts, are derecognized. 
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of comprehensive income during the financial period in which they are incurred. 
Land is not depreciated. 
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: 
Table - 1 – Depreciation Rates of PPE
Rates 
Buildings 
Computers 
Furniture and Fittings 
Electronic equipment 
Motor Vehicles 
Office equipment 
Library Stock  
TV Sets 
Other Assets 
3.4 Financial Instruments 
(a) Financial Assets 
3.4.1 Classification 
The Corporation classifies its financial assets in the following categories: 
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets as maturities are lower than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. 
The Corporation’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet. 
Financial Liabilities 
Liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or other liabilities, as appropriate. 
A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
3.5 Inventories 
Inventories of the corporation consist of consumable stock 
(Stock held for the use of the Corporation & not for sale). 
Therefore inventories are valued at their cost. 
Stock valuation is done on a first-in-first-out (FIFO) basis. 
3.6 Leases 
The leases of property, plant and equipment when the Corporation has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. 
In the past 2 years three (03) Cars & six (06) Vans were obtained on a finance lease, which effectively transfer the Corporation substantially all the risk and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items, are capitalized and disclosed as finance lease at their cash price and depreciated over the period the Corporation is expected to benefit from the use of the leased assets. 
The lease principal amount payable to the lessor (Bank of Ceylon) is shown as a non-current liability & current liability. 
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability. 
The interest payable over the period (5 years) of the lease is transferred to an interest in suspense account. 
The interest element of the rental obligations pertaining to each financial year is charged to the income statement over the period of lease.  
Table 2 – The Time Analysis of Lease payments 
The following table shows the finance lease obligation that falls due one year & more than one year. 
Less than 1 year 
More than I year 
Interest 
Capital 
Lease Creditor – Bank of Ceylon
3.7 Trade Receivables 
3.7.1 Provisions – Trade receivables /Client Debtor 
Trade receivables are carried at anticipated realizable value. 
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Corporation will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization and default payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognized in the statement of comprehensive income within distribution cost. 
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivable. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written-off are against distribution cost in the income statement. 
Table 3 – The Client Debtors Provision as at 31/12/2012     
Provision as at 01/01/2012 
Charge for the year 2012  
Provision as at 31/12/2012
3.7.2 Provisions – Sundry Debtor 
Table 4 – The Sundry Debtors Provision as at 31/12/2012  
Provision as at 01/01/2012 
Charges for the year 2012  
Provision as at 01/01/2012
3.7.3 Provisions – Other Receivables 
3.7.3.1 Employee Loans 
Employee Loans constitute amounts granted to eligible employees under the following 
Distress loan 
Special loan 
Transport loan 
Housing loan 
Other loan 
The provision for bad debts for Employee Loans has been made only for the outstanding amounts with respect to employees who are no longer in service (either retired or resigned) with Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation. 
Table 5 – The Employee Loan provision as at 31/12/2012 
Provision as at 01/01/2012 
Charge for the year 2012  
Write – off for the year 2012  
Provision as at 31/12 2012
3.7.3 2 Employee Advances 
Employee advances constitute amounts under the following categories: 
Advance for Programme Production 
Advance for Employees (Miscellaneous) 
Advance for Foreign Travel 
Advance for Room Charges 
The provision for bad debts for employee advances has been made to reflect the amounts outstanding with respect to employees who are no longer in service (either retired or resigned) with Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation. 
3.8 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand & bank current account balance. 
In the statement of financial position, bank overdrafts are within borrowing in current liabilities. 
3.9 Trade Payables / Liabilities 
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). 
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 
3.10 Current and Deferred Income Tax 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. 
In this case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the provision of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 & subsequent amendments. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. 
It establishes provisions here appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
The related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. 
In this case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 
3.11 Contingent Liabilities 
Provisions are recognized when the Corporation has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. 
A total of 07 cases have been filed against the Corporation. 
This disclosure is made to be in compliance with SLAS 36 (Provisions, contingent liabilities & contingent assets) Contingent liabilities are disclosed in notes to the financial statements. 
3.12 Retirement Benefit Liabilities 
Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of government bonds as no active market for high-quality corporate bonds in Sri Lanka.  
Past-service costs are recognized immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period), In this case, the past-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 
3.13 Defined Contribution Plans 
All employees of the Corporation are members of the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF), to contribute 15% and 3% respectively of such employees’ basic salary or wages, cost of living and meal allowance (non executive employees). 
Corporation’s contribution to the defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense in the income statement when incurrent. 
3.14 Grants 
3.14 – 1 Local Grants 
The grants have been amortized at the rate of 20% per annum. 
3.14 – 2 Foreign Grants 
These equipments will give the corporation the editing to create 2D & 3D animations.  
3.15 Revenue 
Revenue of the Corporation is accounted for on an accrual basis and Interest income on investment is also recognized in the same basis. 
Revenue is measured at the value of the consideration receivable. 
The corporation recognizes revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured; when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the corporation the primary source of revenue is derived from Sale of airtime. 
Other sources of income recognized in the income statement are given as a note to the income statement.  
3.16 Accounting for Expenditure 
Expenditure of the Corporation is accounted for on accrual basis, 
Charging all expenses incurred in the day to day operations of the business and in maintaining the property, plant & equipment in a state of efficiency. 
3.17 Cash Flow Statement 
The Cash Flow Statement has been prepared using the indirect method. 
Cash and cash equivalents consists of cash in hand and bank current account balance. 
3.18 Events after the Balance Sheet Date 
All material post balance sheet events have been considered and disclosed or adjusted, where applicable. 
3.19 Rupavahini Social Welfare Fund-(Tsunami) 
The source of these funds was from the general public, in response to various campaigns carried out by the corporation aftermath the Tsunami catastrophe, in the year 2004. The Account balance is given in the table below. 
Table 6 – Social Welfare Fund Balance as at 31/12/2012 
Balance as at 01/01/2012 
Interest earned for the period 
Fund Balance at the end of the year 2012
The Social Welfare Fund is an integrated part of statement of financial position.  
4. Intangible Asset 
(Copyright fees paid) 
Copyright fees paid to acquire telecast rights of programmes (either local or foreign) & cost of produced programmes (teledramas, motion pictures, films & etc) that meet the triple criteria of being able to identify, control & existence of future economic benefits as defined in LKAS 38
In order to be treated as such, there are three factors that must be recognized, such as the ability to control the detection and the potential economic benefits of the future: the intangible assets should be amortized under the following policies.
Table 7 – a) the policy for amortization of acquired (or procured) programmes and in-house produced programmes. 
Category 
Amortization Policy 
Acquired (or produced) local teledramas and films 
If the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the balance amount capitalized as expenditure at the end of the contract. 
Acquired (or produced) local programmes (other than local teledramas and films)  
If the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the remaining capitalized amount as expenditure at the end of the contract..
Acquired (or produced) foreign films/Soap operas 
If the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the balance capitalized as expenditure at the end of the contract.
Acquired (or produced) foreign programmes (other than foreign films /Soap operas) 
If the number of runs are not exhausted as defined in the contract within the contract period then to recognize the remaining  capitalized amount as expenditure at the end of the contract 
Teledramas produced in house to obtain 50% of the expenditure from the first run and to mortise the balance 50% in 10 years. 
Teledramas produced in house to obtain 50% of the expenditure from the first run and to mortise the balance 50% in 10 years. 
Acquired (or produced) foreign film and Soap Operas are to obtain 50% of the expenditure from the first and to mortise the balance 50% for 10 years is an equal amount.
Acquired (or produced) foreign film and Soap Operas are to obtain 50% of the expenditure from the first and to mortise the balance 50% for 10 years is an equal amount.
Table 7 – b) Copyright Fee 
Purchase of Tele drama 
Procurement of Foreign Programme 
In-house Produced Tele drama 
Local Programme not-telecast 
WIP Local Programme 
In-house Production Others 
Balance as at 01/01/2010  
Balance as at 01/01/2011 
Addition
Balance as at 01/01/2012  
Investment Income 
Tables 8 – Amounts of Investment Income in the year 2012 
Type of Investment
Amount 
Treasury Bill (Bank of Ceylon) 
Fixed Deposits (Bank of Ceylon) 
SMIB Fixed Deposit (State Mortgage & Investment Bank) 
State Super trust Fund  
Special Housing Loan Scheme (State Mortgage & Investment Bank) 
Savings Account (Bank of Ceylon)  
Total Investment Income  
9. Related party disclosures 
The Corporation carries out transactions in the ordinary course of its business with parties who are defined as related parties in Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 24 “Related Party disclosures”, the details of which are reported below. 
No
Name
Designation
Nature of the related party transaction
Address 
Chairman 
No related party transaction 
No. 75/852, Susithapura, 
Malabe. 
Board Member 
Asst.Director Ministry of Education  
52, Ariyadasa Peiris Mw, 
Nugegoda 
Board Member 
Senior Lecturer   
37, 1st Lane,
Aruppola,
Kandy. 
Board Member 
Director General 
(Ministry of Finance & Planning) 
No related party transaction 
34/1, Praja Road, 
Madiwela, 
Kotte. 
Board Member 
Chairman 
Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation 
No related party transaction 
No.255/B11,Torrington Garden, 
Torrington Avenue,
Colombo 07 
Board Member 
Chairman 
National Film Corporation  
No. 30, School Avenue, 
Kalubowila.   
Chief Executive Officer 
No related party transaction 
“Wanamalee”, 
Old Road, 
Barawakumbuka. 
Deputy Director General 
(Engineering) 
No related party transaction 
24, Sri Sumangala Road, 
Ratmalana 
Deputy Director General 
(Finance Manager) 
No related party transaction 
No. 200/5, Sri Rahula Mawatha, 
Katubedda, 
Moratuwa.  
Deputy Director General 
(Production Service) 
No related party transaction 
295/1A, Mahawatta Road, 
Kottikawatta. 
Deputy Director General 
(Programme) 
No related party transaction 
71E,Ihalagama, 
Gampaha 
Director 
(Administration) 
No related party transaction 
125,Mahawatta, 
Wewalduwa, 
Kalaniya. 
Director 
(News & Current Affairs) 
55, Meegahawatta, 
Delgoda. 
Acting Director 
(Marketing Manager) 
No related party transaction 
No.534,Bevilgamuwa, 
Pothuhara. 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Notes to the financial statements 
Rs.’000 
31 December 2012 
31 December 2011 
01. Revenue   
Sale of TV time – channel 1
Sale of TV time – channel Eye
Sale of TV time – contra deal
N.B.T on sale of TV time
Total Revenue
02. Other operating income   
Production income
Investment income (Please refer table 8)
Transfer fees
Profit on disposal property plant & equipment
Rent from canteen
Departmental fines
Interest on loans to employees
Miscellaneous income
Amortization of foreign aid
Non-refundable tender deposits
Registration fees
Sales of programme material
Registration fee – TV dealers
Utilization of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation facilities (foreign)
AIBD training course income
Income from Diploma course
Loan impairment gain
Sale of magazine
Commercial promotional income
Other charges - clients
Government grant
Total other operating income
3. Cost of sales   
3.1 Educational Programme expenses   
Artiste fees
Refreshments 
Make-up materials
Incidental expenses
Graphic material
Stage design
Video cassettes & tapes
Hire of transport facilities
Hire of equipment facilities
Hire of facilities (Theatre / Audio)
Hire of sound equipment
Electricity
Lodging
Still photographs
Travelling & subsistence
Purchase of copy/production/TV right
Premises
Special event
Channel Eye   
Artiste fees
Previewing & monitoring chargers
Refreshment
Hire of equipment/ transport
Hire of transport
Hire of sound equipment
Electricity
Incidental expenses
Travelling & subsistence
Still photographs
Procurement of programme material - foreign
Accommodation
Video cassettes & tapes
Stage design /sets
Hire of facilities (Theatre / Audio)
Premises
Make-up materials
Educational Program
3.2 General Programme expenses   
Artists fees
Previewing & monitoring charges
Refreshment allowance
Purchase of copy /Production TV right
Stage & design / sets/ props
Make-up materials
Video cassettes  & tapes
Graphic & animation materials
Still photographs
Hire of equipment facilities
Incidental expenses
Procurement programme materials - foreign
Travelling & subsistence
Special event
Lodging
Electricity
Hire of facilities (Theatre / Audio)
Hire of sound equipment
Hire of transport
Premises 
Satellite cost
NTV channel   
Expenses for NTV channel (block vote)
Rent of antenna tower at Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation
Reimbursement of electricity charges Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation
Artist fees
Refreshments
Accommodation
Travelling & subsistence
Hire of transport facilities 
Hire of equipment facilities
Hire of facilities (theatre /Audio) 
Electricity 
Video cassettes & tapes 
Stage design / sets 
3.3 News Programme expenses   
Payments to news readers / editors 
News gathering - local 
News gathering - foreign 
Incidental expenses 
Satellite & related charges - local 
Satellite & related charges - foreign 
ABU’s fixed & variable charges 
Current affairs (block vote) 
Transport news vehicle 
Web streaming service 
Video cassettes  & tapes
Refreshment allowances
Design / news sets 
Artist fees
Hire of equipment facilities 
Hire of sound equipment 
Travelling & subsistence
Accommodation   
Sets/props (current affairs) 
Hire of transport facilities (current affairs) 
Hire of facilities (Theatre/Audio)(current affairs) 
Still photographs (current affairs)
Electricity  
Live streaming 
On demand video streaming 
Special events 
3.4 Commercial production expenses   
Artist fees 
Refreshment allowances 
Stage & design /sets/props 
Hire of transport facilities 
Hire of equipment facilities
Incidental expenses 
Travelling & subsistence 
Accommodation & premises 
Hire of sound equipment 
Video cassettes & tapes 
Make-up materials 
Stationery  
Still photographs  
3.5 Other production expenses   
Salaries & other allowances
(for production staff)   
Salaries/allowances – 
Permanent Staff 
Salaries/allowances – 
Contract Staff 
Salaries/allowances – 
Relief Staff 
Overtime 
Corporation share of EPF 
Corporation share of ETF 
Holiday pay 
Week-end payment for executive 
Hardship/altitude /heavy duty 
Duty officers/engineering fees 
Incentive allowance  
Meal allowance – Non executive 
Transport allowance 
Enhancement medical leave 
Bonus 
Electricity – Tx station 
Electricity – Head office (75%) 
Fuel for generator 
Running expenses (75%) 
Rental for Tx stations 
Repairs & maintenance - Equipment 
Tax on foreign programmes 
Commercial contra expenses
Frequency chargers
Leasing of satellite band with 9 MHZ  
Colombo – Palali link for video transmission
Rental for fiber optic link  
Hiring of third party infrastructure
3.6 Depreciation 
Depreciation 
Total cost of sales 
4. Distribution expenses   
Agency commission 
Promotional expenses
Bad debts provision 
-Employee 
-Sundry 
-Clients 
Distribution Expenses 
5. Administrative expenses   
Member’s  remuneration 
Salaries /allowances – Permanent Staff 
Salaries /allowances – Contract Staff 
Overtime 
Corporation share of EPF 
Corporation share of ETF 
Holiday pay 
Week-end payment for executive 
Hardship/altitude /heavy duty 
Duty officers/engineering fees 
Membership fees for professional executives 
Contribution for pension & W & O.P 
Incentive allowance 
Meal allowance – Non executive 
Transport allowance 
Enhancement medical leave 
Incentive gratuity & compensation 
Bonus 
Staff welfare 
Recreation 
Uniform to staff 
Premium – medical insurance scheme 
Premium for accident & life insurance
Traveling & subsidence - Local 
Traveling & subsidence – Mileage allowance
Traveling & subsidence - foreign 
Incidental expenses – Foreign travel 
Corporation refreshment / entertainment 
Rent, rates & taxes 
Electricity & power 
Telephone including rental 
Security service 
Postage 
Printing & stationary 
Newspapers & periodicals 
Office requisites 
Losses on disposal
Exchange losses  
Sundry expenses  
Advertisement – Tender & recruitment 
Compensation for court cases 
Running expenses of motor vehicles  
Hire of motor vehicles  
Insurance – building & other assets  
License & insurance motor vehicles  
Repairs & maintenance – building 
Repairs & maintenance – Garden 
Repairs & maintenance – Other expenses 
Water 
Computer requisites 
License fee for Microsoft product & other expenses
Seminar & training programme - General
Anniversary celebration 
Public addressing system charges /rental 
Repairs of motor vehicles 
Publicity & propaganda 
Training expenditure – internal 
Survey & research expenses 
Donation 
Public relation 
National events 
Expenses for elections - Presidential  
ABU training expenses 
Subscription fees 
Depreciation 
Nation Building Tax 
Retirement benefit obligation 
Administrative expenses  
6. Financial & other charges   
Bank charges 
Bank interest 
Lease interest (Vehicle loan) 
Audit fees 
Legal fees 
Stamp duty 
Financial & other write offs 
Special levy - Treasury 
Financial & other charges 
7. Taxation   
Profit /(loss) for the taxation
Depreciation
Interest paid
Corporation entertainment 
Donations 
Publicity & propaganda (25%) 
Commercial promotional expenses (25%) 
Contra expenses (50%) 
Profit / loss on disposal 
Tax gain / loss 
Anniversary celebration 
Provisions for gratuity 
Paid gratuity
Specific bad debts write off 
Interest income 
Other income 
Grant for capital items 
Capital allowances 
Amortization of foreign aid 
Business profit / (loss) 
Interest income 
Other income 
Total statutory income 
35% from net profit allowable losses b/f  
Interest paid 
Assessable income  
Qualifying payments 
Taxable income 
Tax amount (28%) 
SLR (1.5% from income tax)
Income tax liability 
Deferred tax 
Income tax over provision for the year 2010 
Income tax 
Property, Plant & equipment 
Note 
Balance as at 01.01.2012. 
Additions 
Disposals 
Balance as at 31.12.2012 
Land 
Building 
Furniture & Fittings 
Plant & Equipment  
Office Equipment 
Electrical Equipment 
TV Sets 
Library Stocks 
Loose Tools & Accessories 
Computer 
Other Assets 
Accounting Software 
Equipments for NTV 
Motor Vehicle 
Musical Instrument 
Caravan Equipment 
Security Equipment 
JICA Project 
Total Value of Assets 
Depreciation
Note 
Balance as at 01.01.2012 
Additions 
Disposals 
Balance as at 31.12.2012 
Land 
Building 
Furniture & Fittings 
Plant & Equipment 
Equipment for NTV 
Office Equipment 
Electrical Equipment 
TV Sets 
Library Stocks 
Loose Tools & Accessories 
Computer 
Other Assets 
Accounting Software 
Motor Vehicle 
Musical Instrument 
Caravan Equipment 
Security Equipment 
JICA Equipment received under the project
Total Depreciation 
8. Net book value of assets 
Note 
Balance as at 01. 01. 2012 
Balance as at 31. 12. 2012 
At Cost 
Depreciation 
Total Carrying amount of Property, Plant & Equipment 
Work- in progress 
Note 
Balance as at 01. 01. 2012 
Additions 
Transfers 
Balance as at 31. 12. 2012 
Work- in progress 
Note 
Balance as at 01.01.2012 
Balance as at 31.12.2012 
Total Carrying amount of Property, Plant & Equipment  
Work – in Progress 
Total 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Notes to the financial statements 
Note 
9. Intangible assets 
Purchase of teledrama 
In-house production teledrama 
In-house production - others 
Programme material foreign 
Local Programmes (Not telecast) 
Local Programmes (Work-In Progress) 
Intangible assets 
10. Held to maturity financial assets 
Fixed deposits (Bank Of Ceylon)
Fixed deposit (State Mortgage &  Investment Progress)
11. Stocks 
Printing & stationary 
Spare parts – ENG 1 
Spare parts – ENG 11 
Graphics material 
Make-up material 
Building material 
Motor vehicle material 
Diesel stocks 
Office requisites 
(Exuding printing & stationary) 
Miscellaneous items 
Cassettes & tapes (bank) in main stores 
Electrical consumables 
Cassettes & tapes in the Library
Recorded cassettes 
Loose tools 
TV Sets 
Printer 
Magazine 
Stocks 
12. Trade receivables 
Client debtors 
Trade receivables  
13. Loans & other receivables 
13.1 Treasury bills   
Treasury bills   
13.2 Debtors - Employee 
TV loan - others 
Distress loan 
Festival advance 
Transport loan 
Special loan 
Textile loan 
Other loan 
Housing loan 
Housing loan prepayments 
Debtors - Employee 
Loan & other receivable 
14. Other receivables 
14.1 Advance & deposits 
State Mortgage & Investment Bank (Housing loan fund) 
Goods in transit  
Advance to suppliers – local purchase (Institute) 
Advance to suppliers – For programme production 
Advance to employees – Miscellaneous 
Advance to employees - Programme 
Advance to Artistes 
Deposits for services - Refundable 
Travelling advance - Local 
Advance for room charges 
Advance on foreign purchase – spares parts 
Advance to contractors 
Advance to employees - Purchase 
Travelling advance - Foreign 
Advance – Social welfare fund 
Stamp IMP – Administration Division 
Withholding tax (WHT) deducted at source 
Tax – Economic Service Charge (ESC)  
Advance & deposits 
14.2 Sundry debtors 
Recoverable from retired /resigned employees 
Income receivables
(From inland revenue & other) 
Staff debtors - Sundries 
Insurance corporation medical scheme 
Coin adjustment 
Lease interest suspense A/C 
Sundry debtors 
Less: Impairment of sundry debtors 
Other receivables 
15. Cash, bank balance & deposits as call 
BOC saving A/C 
Cash in hand 
Bank balance BOC corporate Branch 
Bank balance BOC Torrington Branch 
Cash, bank balance & deposits as call
16 Government grant for capital items 
Government grant for capital items  
Government grant for capital items  
17 Retirement benefit obligation - 
Retirement benefit obligation - Gratuity 
Retirement benefit obligation - Gratuity 
18 Trade payables 
Creditors client 
Agency commission payable 
Client transfer / refunds 
Trade payables 
Other financial liabilities 
Accrued expenses 
Unclaimed salaries & wages 
Retention - contract 
Security – contract & suppliers 
Creditors control 
Cancelled cheques - corporate 
Artistes fee payable (cancelled cheques) 
Retention – Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation employees 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Prereciepts 
Tender deposits (refundable) 
Salaries payable 
Fund for Rupavahini museum 
CIR stamp duty 
Ministry of state 
Provision for fine on gratuity 
Miscellaneous payable – Suwa sahana 
Provision for dividend (to the government) 
Other financial liabilities
20 Other payables 
Retention with holding tax 
Provision for income tax 
VAT control A/C 
Retention with holding turnover tax 
PATE tax 
Other payables 
21 Bank overdraft – BOC corporate branch 
Bank overdraft – BOC corporate branch 
Bank overdraft – BOC corporate branch 
22 Finance leases 
22.1 Finance leases payable current portion 
22.2 Finance leases payable non-current portion 
Finance leases
February 2014 
The Chairman, 
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation 
Report of the Auditor General on the Financial Statements of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation for the year ended 31 December 2012 in terms of Section 14 (2) (c) of the Finance Act No. 38 of 1971   
The audit of financial statements of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprising the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2012 and the comprehensive income statement, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, was carried out under my direction in pursuance of provisions in Article 154 (1) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka read in conjunction with Section 13(1) of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 and Section 16(3) of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Act, No. 6 of 1982. 
My comments and observations which I consider should be published with the annual report of the Corporation in terms of Section 14(2)(c) of the Finance Act appear in this report. 
A detailed report in terms of Section 13(7)(a) of the Finance Act was issued to the Chairman of the Corporation on 15 August 2013. 
1.2 Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements  
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and for such internal control as the management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. 
1.3 Auditor’s Responsibility 
My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit. 
I conducted my audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 
Those Standards require that I comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatements. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. 
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Sub-sections (3) and (4) of the Section 13 of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 give discretionary powers to the Auditor General to determine the scope and extent of the audit. 
I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my qualified audit opinion. 
1.4 Basis for Qualified Audit Opinion. My opinion is qualified based on the matters described in paragraph 2.2 of this report.  
2. Financial Statements 
2.1 Qualified Opinion 
In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 2.2 of this report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation as at 31 December 2012 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
2.2 Comments on Financial Statements 
2.2.1 Sri Lanka Accounting Standards  
2.2.3 Accounts Receivables and Payables 
The following observations are made. 
(a) Client Debtors 
(ii) The client debtors are generated at the time of supplying the air time on credit basis by the Corporation.  
(c) Grant and Settlement of Advances 
The following observations are made. 
2.2.4 Lack of Evidence for Audit 
(a) The evidence indicated against the following items appearing in the financial statements had not been furnished to audit. 
Item   
Value   
Documentary Evidence not made available 
(i) Debtors
Classification Schedules in terms Of new Accounting Standards 
(ii) Cash flows generated from Operating activities    
Details of Calculations
(iii) Impairment Gain
Schedules/Details of Calculations 
(iv) Programs, Publicity and Purchase Expenses 
Schedules/Details of Calculations 
(v) Investments – Lanka Puwath     
Ownership Certificates 
(vi) Work-in-progress
Schedules 
(vii) Information on Frauds 
Cannot be calculated 
Information requested for audit 
(viii) Land of the Corporation and Lands of Transmitting Stations (Rates value)   
Legal Evidence (Title Deeds, Vesting Documents, Gazette Notifications) 
Total
(b) The criteria adopted in deciding on the price per film purchased by the Corporation under the contra agreements had not been furnished to audit. As such those could not be satisfactorily vouched. 
2.2.5 Non-compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions 
Non-compliance with the following laws, rules, regulations and management decisions were observed. 
Reference to Laws, Rules, Regulations and Management Decisions  
(a) Financial Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Public Enterprises Circular PED/12 of 02 June 2003.
(b) Letter No. M/TR/1/2005 of Secretary to the Ministry of Finance dated 28 March 2003 
(c) Section 6.5.1 of Public Enterprises Circular No. PED/12 of 02 June 2003  
(d) Public Enterprises Circular No. PED/50 of 28 July 2008 and Public Administration Circular No.22/99 of 08 October 1999   
Decrease of Channel Eye income during the year by more than 75 per cent or Rs.637,390,000 as compared with the preceding year had been the main reason for this decrease.  
3.2 Analytical Financial Review 
3.3  Legal Action instituted against / by the Institute 
Eleven cases had been filed against the Corporation by external parties and 05 cases had been filed by the employees of the Corporation as at 31 December 2012. 
Two cases had been finalized during the year under review. 
3.4 Unusual Increases in Expenses 
The following observations are made. 
(a) The following item of expenditure for the year under review as compared with the expenditure for the preceding year had increased unusually. 
Expenditure Item Expenses  
Expenditure
Increase over the previous year 
Per centage of increase over the previous year  
Anniversary Celebration 
Deyata Kirula 
Artiste’s Fees 
Loading Charges 
Sundry Expenses 
(b) The increase in the sundry expenses of the Ranavwiru Real Star program in the year 2012 as compared with year 2011 ranged between 58 per cent to 183 per cent. 
4. Operating Review 
4.1 Management Inefficiencies 
The following observations are made.    
5. Accountability and Good Governance 
5.1 Preparation of Financial Statements 
Even though financial statements should be presented to the Audior General within 60 days after the close of the financial year in terms of the Public Enterprises Circular No. PED/12 of 02 June 2003, the financial statements for the year under review had been presented by the Corporation only on 15 May 2013, that is, after a delay of 76 days. 
5.2 Action Plan 
The following observations are made.  
5.3 Internal Audit 
The cadre of the Internal Audit Unit of the Corporation comprised a permanent Internal Auditor and 06 other staff. 
Twenty two internal audit queries in the first half of the year and 4 internal audit queries in the second half of the year had been issued. 
5.4 Strategic Maketing Plan 
A Strategic Marketing Plan designed for marketing promotion profitable for the Corporation though the identification of its strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats had not been prepared for the year 2012. 
5.5 Audit Committee 
Even though the Audit Committee should meet at least once in three months in terms of the public Enterprises Circular No. PED/31 of 01 July 2005, only two meetings had been held in the year 2012. 
5.6 Budgetary Control 
Income had not been estimated properly and as such increase of income of certain items against the budget ranging from 25 per cent to 44 per cent as well as decrease in the income  ranging from 33 per cent to 1062 per cent were observed.  
Similarly, increase in expenditure by 117 per cent as well as decrease in expenditure ranging from 14 per cent to 65 per cent due to the failure to prepare expenditure estimates properly were observed. 
As such as the budget for the year 2012 had not been made use of as an effective instrument of management control. 
6.Systems and Controls 
Deficiencies in systems and controls observed during the course of audit were brought to the notice of the Chairman of the Corporation from time to time. 
Special attention is needed in respect of the following areas of control. 
(a) Debtors / Creditors Control 
(b) Budgetary Control 
(c) Staff Loans Control 
(d) Advances Settlement Control 
(e) Contra Agreements 
(f) Collection of Air Time Income 
(g) Accounting 
Acting Auditor General
Home
Projects
Completed projects
2010
Completed job description
Job No
Job Description
Estimate cost 
Rs: Mn
Rehabilitation of Puluganawi Irrigation scheme 
dismantled and installed the Gates at new position
Fabrication Installation of 04 Nos Radial Gates to Kankaniyar Kulam for Peace Project.
Downloads
Application Forms
Application Form
Specimen Application Form for Unskilled Labourers
Procurement Examination of Bidding Document Quataion Form
Procurement Examination of Bidding Document Shopping Document
Pre Qualification Application For Accreditation of Supplies
Contact Us
Department of Government Factory
Kolonnawa
Sri Lanka
Telephone
Fax
E-mail
Web Url
Subject
Inquiry
Contact Name
Telephone
E-mail
Enter security code in following text box
Unit
Name 
Designation 
E-mail 
Telephone No
Ext No
Factory Engineer
Deputy Factory Engineer
Acct
Chief Accountant
Acct
Accountant
(payment)
Acct
Accountant
(stores)
Admin
Deputy Manager
(Admin)
Works
Works Manager
Works
Deputy Works Manager 
Works
Deputy Works Manager 
Works
Deputy Works Manager 
Works
Deputy Works Manager 
Works
Vacant
Deputy Works Manager 
Works
Vacant
Deputy Works Manager 
Works
Deputy Works Manager
Works
senior Mechanical Superiendent (Project)
Mechanical Superintendent 
Logistic
Manager (Logistic)
Logistic/ Training ISO
Deputy Manager(Training)
Logistic/Supply
Supply Engineer
Logistic
senior Mechanical Superiendent
(Quality)
Logistic
senior Mechanical Superiendent 
(IT Secu.)
Logistic/Supply
Human Resource Assistant
Logistic/Supply
senior Mechanical Superiendent
(Supply)
Logistic/Supply
Mechanical Superintendent -
supply
Logistic/Supply
Mechanical Superintendent
Supply
Logistic/Progress
Progress and Development Assistant
Logistictic 
Legal Assistant
Marketing
Manager(Marketing)
Marketing
senior Mechanical Superiendent
(Marketing)
Marketing
Mechanical Superintendent
Marketing
Marketing
Mechanical Superintendent
(Marketing)
Deduru Oya			
Fabrication and  Installation of 2 nos water management gates and 3 nos Radial Gates for Deduru Oya Project
FAQs
How to get Work and Services, Products, Training, Procurement, Payments, and Expenditure of customer jobs related information?
Factory Engineer issue a circular to all government and semi government institutions, departments, Ministries etc stating what type of products, works and services that the government factory intents to  offer during the each year.  
This circular is available in the marketing branch and those who are interested may contact Marketing Manager or can be down loaded from the following URL, http://www.govtfactory.gov.lk .
Further details and clarifications could be obtained either from Marketing Manager or Works Manager or from Assistant Works Managers. 
Written requests or inquiries are to be addressed to Factory Engineer either with specifications and drawings or specific user needs, requirements and finishes etc. 
Once you forward your inquiry reply is given either telephone or on line or by post, whichever way you to convenience
Prices for standard products can be obtained from Marketing Manager
Works and Services related information can be obtained from Works Manager.
Design and  Fabrication related information can be obtained from Assistant Works Manager(DPB)
Training related information can be obtained from Training Engineer 
Procurement Related information can be obtained either from Manager Organization or Supply Engineer. 
Materials, Plant  Machinery, Equipments, Work and services required by Government Factory for provision of customer works, products and services are published annually under the registration of suppliers.
Chief Accountant or Accountant Payment can be contacted in relation to payments and expenditure of the customer jobs.
Informationa regarding the new recruites can be obtained from the information management officer.
The vision of the Government Factory is to Develop the customer services, both internal and external, to the highest quality in keeping with Global Trends.
Mission
Provision of Mechanical Engineering products, Works, services, solutions and Workshop Training in Mechanical Engineering for Tradesmen, Technicians, Undergraduates, Craft Apprentices and Mechanical Engineers
Products
Hospital Furniture 
Health sector has been our major customer more than four decades and originally provided mostly steel furniture with painted finish for most of the hospitals.
There are about 30 odd steel items in the standard product list, Variety of Beds, trolleys, cupboards, wheel chairs, Baby cots, and various types of Stands etc.
Some products are made out of Stainless steel with better finish.
Electroplating techniques has also been used for better finish of some products.
Powder coating of hospital furniture has been introduced since last year for increasing demand for better surface finish and durability from health sector.
Product development is always encouraged and our engineers are ready for meeting customer needs in the health Sector 
giving consultancy services for preparation of specifications and product development to cater local needs and requirement of general public.
Order Products
Household Tools Furniture
Order Products
Laboratory Furniture 
We have more than thirty years experience in making and supplying laboratory furniture especially for universities. 
Tables, cupboards, stools and other timber furniture are produced on customer request. 
Prices of these items vary with the customers requirements and not included to standard product price list.
Order Products
Office Equipment 
Furniture
Products
Products Classification
Water Management Gates and Accessories
Hospital Furniture
Office Equipment 
Furniture
Laboratory Furniture
Equipment
Road Maintenance Equipment
Household Tools and Furniture
Signage
Powder Coated Products
Downloads
Recruitment Scheme
Recruitment Scheme - 
Page 2
Monday, 05 August 2013 09:38
All Pages
Products
Powder Coated Products
Powder coating  technology has been introduced from 2009 for Steel products, especially hospital furniture. 
Powder coating gives the products high quality and durability than the color coating.
presently the poder coating is done only for the steel products.
Powder coating can be applied to aluminum, steel, cast iron and chrome-plated metals. 
Following products or parts of the products can also be powder coated.
Home appliances 
Automobile and 
bicycle parts
Powder coating use to the anti-corrosion protection for pipeline, valves fittings 
reinforcing steel
Wires and wire products 
Fences and fencing parts
Garden products and toold
Home
Downloads
Price List Of Products
Price List
PRICE LIST OF STANDARD PRODUCTION ITEMS
PRICE LIST OF STANDARD PRODUCTION ITEMS
PRICE LIST OF WATER MANAGEMENT EQUIPMENT
Order Products
Road Maintenance Equipment
Road Maintenance Equipment 
Products, tools and equipments for roads maintenance are manufactured on customer request. 
Tar Boiler of 60 and 120 Gallon, 
Tar Patching sets, 
Wheel Barrows, 
Gulley Grating Frame 
Cover of standard sizes, 
Manhole Frame Covers rectangular and circular standard sizes 
these are made out of mild steel sheets, rods, angles, Galvanized Iron pipe, and cast iron using casting, welding, and metal fabrication processes.
Order Products
Signage 
Engraving, 
Embossing, 
drawing,
embossing
stamping
are used to make the signage
the Name Boards which were manufactured by us is listed below
digital Name Boards 
screen print name boards
Brass, 
Aluminum or
Stainless Steel, 
Name Boards made by using the letters
plastic Name boards
reflecting roadside signage
more than that Manufacturing of official signs, remembaral name boards and official signs are manufactured
Sitemap				
About Us
Overview
Our Team
Organization Structure
Key Divisions and Locations
Human Resources Strength
Citizan Charter
Order Products
Works and Services
Water Management Gates Repairs 
Repairs to steel and wooden Roofs
Installation Steel and cast Iron gates and Fencing
Heavy and Light Fabrications
Ferrous Castings
creating office rooms using Aluminum and Wooden Partitioning
Light Engineering
Procurement
Advanced Procurement Notices
General Procurement Notices
Procurement Awards
Procurement of Goods and Services
Training
Projects
Ongoing Projects
Completed Projects
FAQs
Statistics
Action Plan of Current Projects
Progress Review of Current Projects
Progress Reports
Downloads
Application Forms
Circulars
Price List Of Products
Contact Us
Sitemap
Home
Order Products
Water Management Gates and Accessories
Water Management Gates and Accessories 
Water management gates are used for irrigation system
Materials used for manufacturing these gates are of Cast Iron, Mild Steel, Structural Steel, Stainless Steel, and Timber depending on the customer needs. 
The types of Gates 
Cast iron sluice gates are of circular opening ranging from 6 inches  to 30 inches, in three inches intervals and used to regulate water levels in cannels. 
These gates consists of various parts such as, housing, seat, slide, base plate, wedge block, brass or gun metal nut, operating handle or wheel, threaded spindle, extension bars, anchor bolts and nuts etc. Cast iron sluice gates are one of our Standard Products.
Radial gates are made out of using Structural Steel and Stainless Steels 316 L grade
These Radial gates are used for the following reasons
Maintenance of water elevations in canals and spillways
Increased storage capacity for reservoirs
Diversion of water for irrigation
Flow control preserving wide clear waterways
Other areas requiring economical water control
Stop logs are used for level control in open channels
Flap Gates use for Barrages
Emergency gates are used in reservoirs
Timber gates are made out of  Kubuk wood, 
sizes are ranging from 2’x 2’ to up ward 
Accessories of Gates
Accessories of cast iron gates are available for sale.
Pedestals and operating mechanisms required for variety of load conditions of gates are also provided. 
Finishing of Gates
Painting is the main finishing method for all types of gates; depending on the salinity of water the different painting techniques are used. 
For corrosion prevention marine paints are used. 
Galvanizing also is used instead of painting on the request of customers. 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
Sri Lanka
English
Sinhala
Tamil
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Home
Staff Access 
Hospitals 
Government Hospitals
Private Hospitals
Summary
Clinics 
Gallery 
Health Bulletin 
Telephone Directory 
Contact
About Us
History
Our Vision
Hon. Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
Gov. Health Institutions
Hospitals
Clinics
PDHS
RDHS
Others
Summary
Govermant Health Manpower
GIS Maps
Your Wellbeing 
Healthy Lifestyle
Maternal and Child Health
Immunisation
Oral Health
Our Services 
Hospital Based Care
Public Health Services
Indigenous Medicine
Projects 
Project Progress
Clinic Survey
Evaluation - Provincial Ministry
Evaluation - Line Ministry
SHSDP Website
Innovation research Projects
Fellowships
Travel Grants
Tracking and evaluation
Procurement
Vacancy
Projects in the Pipeline
Public Notices 
Health Alerts
Employment Opportunities
Tenders and Procurement
General Notices
Gazette Notifications
Research Opportunities
Online Applications
Donations Counter
Travelers Guide 
Health Services at Ports
Quarantine Information
Immunization
Publications 
Accident 
Emergency Care Manual Guidelines
List of Publications
Human Resource Profile
Policies, Strategies and Plans
Health Master Plan
Published Policies
Policies for Public Opinion
Annual Health Bulletin
Sri Lanka National Health Accounts 2013
Health Statistics
Health Performance Monitoring Indicators
Health posters
Accident 
Emergency Care Manual Guidelines 
Accident 
Emergency Care Manual Guidelines
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
SUWASIRIPAYA, No 38, 
Rev.Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10, 
Sri Lanka.
Telephone(General):
ABOUT US
History
Our Vision
Hon Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
GIS Maps
WEB SYSTEMS
HRM System
Web Mail
Specialist Transfers 
PUBLIC NOTICES
General Notices
Health Alerts
Tenders and Procurement
Employment opportunities
Gazette Notice
Online applications
Donations Counter
Research Opportunities
HOSPITALS
Govermant Hospitals
Private Hospitals
STAFF ACCESS
Administration
Training
Circulars
Schedule Calendar
Research
Staff Notices
Phone Directory
Download
Projects
VISIT PREVIOUS WEBSITE
Previous Website
Copy Right @
Last Update
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
Sri Lanka
English
Sinhala
Tamil
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Home
Staff Access 
Hospitals 
Government Hospitals
Private Hospitals
Summary
Clinics 
Gallery 
Health Bulletin 
Telephone Directory 
Contact
About Us
History
Our Vision
Hon. Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
Gov. Health Institutions
Hospitals
Clinics
PDHS
RDHS
Others
Summary
Govt. Health Manpower
GIS Maps
Your Wellbeing 
Healthy Lifestyle
Maternal and Child Health
Immunisation
Oral Health
Our Services 
Hospital Based Care
Public Health Services
Indigenous Medicine
Projects 
Project Progress
Clinic Survey
Evaluation - Provincial Ministry
Evaluation - Line Ministry
SHSDP Website
Innovation research Projects
Fellowships
Travel Grants
Tracking and evaluation
Procurement
Vacancy
Projects in the Future
Public Notices 
Health Alerts
Employment Opportunities
Tenders and Procurement
General Notices
Gazette Notifications
Research Opportunities
Online Applications
Donations Counter
Travelers Guide 
Health Services at Ports
Quarantine Information
Immunization
Publications 
Accident 
Emergency Care Manual Guidelines
List of Publications
Human Resource Profile
Policies, Strategies and Plans
Health Master Plan
Published Policies
Policies for Public Opinion
Annual Health Bulletin
Sri Lanka National Health Accounts 2013
Health Statistics
Health Performance Monitoring Indicators
Accident 
Emergency Care Manual Guidelines
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE            
SUWASIRIPAYA, No 38, Rev.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
Sri Lanka.
Telephone(General):
ABOUT US
History
Our Vision
Hon Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
Govt. Health Manpower
GIS Maps
WEB SYSTEMS
HRM System
Web Mail
Specialist Transfers 
PUBLIC NOTICES
General Notices
Health Alerts
Tenders and Procurement
Employment opportunities
Gazette Notice
Online applications
Donations Counter
Research Opportunities
HOSPITALS
Govermant Hospitals
Private Hospitals
STAFF ACCESS
Administration
Training
Circulars
Schedule Calendar
Research
Staff Notices
Phone Directory
Download
Projects
VISIT PREVIOUS WEBSITE
Previous Website
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
Last Update
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
Sri Lanka
English
Sinhala
Tamil
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Home
Staff Access 
Hospitals 
Government Hospitals
Private Hospitals
Summary
Clinics 
Gallery 
Health Bulletin 
Telephone Directory 
Contact 
About Us 
History
Our Vision
Hon. Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
Gov. Health Institutions
Hospitals
Clinics
PDHS
RDHS
Others
Summary
Govt. Health Manpower
GIS Maps
Your Wellbeing 
Healthy Lifestyle
Maternal and Child Health
Immunisation
Oral Health
Our Services 
Hospital Based Care
Public Health Services
Indigenous Medicine
Projects 
Project Progress
Clinic Survey
Evaluation - Provincial Ministry
Evaluation - Line Ministry
SHSDP Website
Innovation research Projects
Fellowships
Travel Grants
Tracking and evaluation
Procurement
Vacancy
Projects in the Pipeline
Public Notices 
Health Alerts
Employment	Opportunities
Tenders and Procurement
General Notices
Gazette Notifications
Research Opportunities
Online Applications
Donations Counter
Travelers Guide 
Health Services at Ports
Quarantine Information
Immunization
Publications 
List of Publications
Human Resource Profile
Policies, Strategies and Plans
Health Master Plan
Published Policies
Policies for Public Opinion
Annual Health Bulletin
Sri Lanka National Health Accounts 2013
Health Statistics
Health Performance Monitoring Indicators
Accident 
Emergency Care Manual Guidelines
Sorry, this page is under construction. 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
SUWASIRIPAYA, No 38, 
Rev.Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10, 
Sri Lanka.
Telephone(General):
ABOUT US
History
Our Vision
Hon Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
GIS Maps
WEB SYSTEMS
HRM System
Web Mail
Specialist Transfers 
PUBLIC NOTICES
General Notices
Health Alerts
Tenders and Procurement
Employment opportunities
Gazette Notice
Online applications
Donations Counter
Research Opportunities
HOSPITALS
Govermant Hospitals
Private Hospitals
STAFF ACCESS
Administration
Training
Circulars
Schedule Calendar
Research
Staff Notices
Phone Directory
Download
Projects
VISIT PREVIOUS WEBSITE
Previous Website
Copy Right @
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
Last Update
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
Sri Lanka
English
Sinhala
Tamil
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Home
Staff Access 
Hospitals 
Government Hospitals
Private Hospitals
Summary
Clinics 
Gallery 
Health Bulletin 
Telephone Directory 
Contact 
About Us 
History
Our Vision
Hon. Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
Gov. Health Institutions
Hospitals
Clinics
PDHS
RDHS
Others
Summary
Govt. Health Manpower
GIS Maps
Your Wellbeing 
Healthy Lifestyle
Maternal and Child Health
Immunisation
Oral Health
Our Services 
Hospital Based Care
Public Health Services
Indigenous Medicine
Projects 
Project Progress
Clinic Survey
Evaluation - Provincial Ministry
Evaluation - Line Ministry
SHSDP Website
Innovation research Projects
Fellowships
Travel Grants
Tracking and evaluation
Procurement
Vacancy
Projects in the Pipeline
Public Notices 
Health Alerts
Employment	Opportunities
Tenders and Procurement
General Notices
Gazette Notifications
Research Opportunities
Online Applications
Donations Counter
Travelers Guide 
Health Services at Ports
Quarantine Information
Immunization
Publications 
List of Publications
Human Resource Profile
Policies, Strategies and Plans
Health Master Plan
Published Policies
Policies for Public Opinion
Annual Health Bulletin
Sri Lanka National Health Accounts 2013
Health Statistics
Health Performance Monitoring Indicators
Accident 
Emergency Care Manual Guidelines
ANNUAL HEALTH BULLETIN
ANNUAL HEALTH BULLETIN
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
SUWASIRIPAYA, No 38, 
Rev.Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10, 
Sri Lanka.
Telephone(General):
ABOUT US
History
Our Vision
Hon Minister
Hon. Deputy Minister
Top Officials
GIS Maps
WEB SYSTEMS
HRM System
Web Mail
Specialist Transfers 
PUBLIC NOTICES
General Notices
Health Alerts
Tenders and Procurement
Employment opportunities
Gazette Notice
Online applications
Donations Counter
Research Opportunities
HOSPITALS
Govermant Hospitals
Private Hospitals
STAFF ACCESS
Administration
Training
Circulars
Schedule Calendar
Research
Staff Notices
Phone Directory
Download
Projects
VISIT PREVIOUS WEBSITE
Previous Website
Copy Right @
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
Last Update
Select
All island
Ampara
Anuradapura
Badulla
Batticaloa
Colombo
Galle
Gampaha
Hambanthota
Jaffna
Kalutara
Kandy
Kegalle
Kilinochchi
Kurunegala
Mannar
Matale
Matara
Monaragala
Mullaithivu
Nuwara-eliya
Polonnaruwa
Puttalam
Ratnapura
Trincomalee
Vavuniya
Please Select
Child clinic
Mediacla clinic
Other clinic
Sri lankan government hospitals
OUR VISSION
A healthier nation that contributes to its economic, social, mental and spiritual development.
OUR MISSION
To contribute to social and economic development of Sri Lanka by achieving the highest attainable health status through promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative services of high quality made available and accessible to people of Sri Lanka.
